title: Approaches to computing
date: 2019-07-20
category: Lifestyle

Updated 8/12/2019

An autobiographical account of using computers
---------------------------------------------

Here's how I was introduced to computers&mdash;

> We use specific programs to do specific things. MS word is for
> writing papers. MS paint is for having fun making digital
> drawings. Photoshop is for more serious digital paintings (and
> editing photos). Games r fun.

More or less, I continued to think this way even after I took my first
introduction to programming class (Java in High School). I was
introduced to programming using Integrated Development Environments
(IDEs); large applications that aim to bring all tools necessary for
writing programs together.

At a certain point, however, I began to take note of the fact that I
could *use different programs to edit the same sorts of files*. I
think I started to have these thoughts about graphics software. I
realized I could use various editing softwares to do some task like
*resizing an image*. Wow, cool!

As I thought of new things I wanted to do with computers, I became
more interested in software generally (specifically *free* software,
as in *free beer* because I didn't have a way to pay for stuff
online). I gradually learned more about programming generally, Linux,
and other related things.

All of this has been a lot of fun. It has also caused some trouble for
me, working with other people and their computers. Could I help
someone do XYZ in Microsoft Word? No, because I was too busy fiddling
with LaTeX or Markdown. I guess I could help them Google it? More
recently, by investing lots of time into learning [GNU
emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/emacs.html), I've neglected
to learn many useful things in [Microsoft's Visual Studio
Code](https://code.visualstudio.com), the de facto standard for web
development (my day job) these days.

All of this rambling leads us to our main topic of
discussion&mdash;*different approaches to computing* and their
relative pros and cons.

Approaches to Computing
-----------------------

There are a lot of people like me who have messed around with a lot of
programs to do a lot of things and are not so super-good at using any
of them. We have fun with computers, get our work done, and are
excited to play around with new technologies (or rediscover) old ones.
Our abilities scale with effort, enthusiasm, and time. We "waste" a
lot of time on the computer in the sense that if we just stuck with a
few things, we could have gotten by with a lot less scattered know-how
and hours spent fiddling with configuration files.

This leads us to another type of computer user...

### The One Program Wonder

Certain pieces of software out there are very powerful.  If you can
use certain programs well, you can easily turn your visions in reality
(and find high paying work).

Some people learn a small number of programs extremely well and don't
care about the rest. Consider a digital artist/designer that makes use
of Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator. This person has awesome
visual powers. With a Macbook pro and a big idea, they can move
mountains.

This person might not know how to write a bash script, set up a
printer, or install an operating system. They may call tech support
for help. Are they n00b? Or, consider the hardcore gamer that
concentrates on one game and plays it very well. They may not know how
to do anything else on a computer, but in their domain they are an
unstoppable force.

### Just make it werk

Then, there are people that believe that *by playing (video) games you
already lose*.

Some people spend as little time with computers as possible. Often,
this works out just fine. These are users who can get away with
replacing a laptop or a desktop computer with a tablet. For these
users, the tablet does everything they would want a computer to do,
plus it is generally cheaper, it is more portable, and perhaps more
durable.

Using mobile devices and tablets, there is often only one way really
to do things. There is a single way to do things like change settings,
enter/exit the application, etc. Often this involves clicking,
touching buttons, etc. For nerds, this may be terrible. They may
literally lose sleep over trying to do something in a way UI/UX
designers don't care about.

"Just make it werk" users may just give up with their technology and
go socialize, work out, paint pictures, or do something else with
their time while nerds try to pretend Macbooks are Linux machines. 


Self-reflection on my after-hours computing habits
--------------------------------------------------

After hours, I boot up Linux (see my [Arch Linux install
guide](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/arch-linux-install-for-n00bs.html)),
launch emacs (see my [config
file](https://gist.github.com/captainalan/d2d94f8ff88ba0c74e85560246d51fdf),
and proceed to write code, prose, and everything in between.  Would it
be better to (1) stay in Windows, (2) use a word processor to write
prose, and (3) use an IDE to write code?

For quickly getting stuff done, I think that choosing these
conventional solutions would typically be better.

When I consider an activity like *writing a letter*, I get excited
about booting up Linux, formatting things nicely in LaTeX and playing
around with emacs commands. But TBH, it would be easier to just start
typing in MS Word or Libre office. I can adjust fonts and stuff to
make things look pretty good.

I think about the "One Program Wonder". I think about the "Just make
it werk" user. These people are doing just fine. And I'm taking three
times as along as I need to to finish some task. But you just wait!
The *next* time I have to do something similar, I'll be faster!

...unless I'm messing around with some new software/configuration
again.
