title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 119
date: 2021-04-10
category: News

Why are **video games** so popular these days? I will answer this
question from my own experience&mdash;probably some of the thoughts I
will put here will mirror some readers' experiences.

Type of games
-------------

First, we should point out that there are many different sorts of
video games. What kind of games people are drawn to may be a useful
type of "personality test", ha!

I was always drawn more to "story" and "puzzle" games and while I did
enjoy cool *game mechanics* in action games, I was never drawn getting
really good at some action game. Lots of other people are just the
opposite; a fast-paced shooter where reaction times are key may be the
bestest game ever.

On the other hand, many people are drawn towards "sandbox" or
"world-building" type games that don't really have some goal. Whereas
I enjoy the clear beginning and end points of working through a puzzle
or story, some people are drawn to games where "farming" or just
overseeing stuff by doing some repetitive task is the main thing you
do.

Why I lost interest in most games
---------------------------------

I think one of the big reasons people play games is to exercise some
kind of **agency** and for **escapism**. I remember wanting to play
games after a long day at school, doing homework, and so on. Whereas
most of my day was structured on *coersion*&mdash;more or less being
forced (rather than "asked") to do all sorts of stuff, video games
offered a place where you could build out things how you like (RPG),
experiment and lose a lot and still keep playing and get better
(action games), or just engage some story different from what you've
been told about how the world works (story-driven games).

Many kids grow up without many responsibilities. Besides going to
school and getting grades, they aren't given much control over stuff.
Even "cleaning one's room" can be hard for some people&mdash;parents
and others might object to throwing away stuff, doing major
re-organization, etc. So the comfortable default is to kind of just
let stuff keep on going how it is, even if the space could be better
used. This I think is one of the most important lessons I got from
moving out&mdash;even if you don't have everything else figured out
yet, taking control of your own space puts you in a different sort of
mindset.

This is to say, there's a difference between "digitally designing your
dream room" and then going out and re-arranging stuff in a space.
Digitally, lots of actions are easier such as: creating a new thing,
deleting stuff, undoing actions, etc.

On the other hand, using physical materials, all of these actions come
at a price. So spending your time doing *anything* becomes a much more
costly endeavor. If you go to work, even working a job that does not
pay so much, you get more resources to work with in exchange for your
time/labor. Here, you know that trying something new (e.g. picking up
a new hobby) costs something precious&mdash;suppose you work 9 AM to 5
PM, 5 days a week, like many people do. You want to be to bed by 11
PM.

While we are younger, time doesn't seem as valuable (whereas
money/resources often do, more so than for more established people).
So young people often play a lot of games. I've played my fair share
of games (I wouldn't ever call myself "addicted"), but I've certainly
spent many hours playing games I could have put to some other more
useful purpose.

You can find countless YouTube videos of people documenting their
experiences, including getting out of addiction.

### Putting the Pedal to the Metal

I lost interest in video games by becoming a full-time LARPer. [^1] By
this, I don't mean faking/pretending, but rather *using useful ideas
which are often modeled in video games* in order to get results in the
"real world". For example, in many games there is an aspect of
"grinding" or "farming"&mdash;doing some repetitive task that may
actually be kinda boring. Oftentimes people will enjoy listening to
music, podcasts, and so on while doing this.

If you're going to "grind", why don't you at least get paid for it?

Depending where you live, this might even be kind of fun. For
instance, do you think spending 8 hours picking strawberries is a
better 8 hours spent than training some game in a video game? There
are many things you will notice/learn while working outside&mdash;from
the bugs and birds around you to how people organize themselves and of
course the task you're directly doing. You'll better understand
strawberries better than you ever have before if you spend a bunch of
hours with them.

My "exit" of games came through earning my first paychecks&mdash;very
modest at first, from part-time work while at school and then later my
monthly-stipend as a graduate student. What happened though was I had
enough to live on my own so I could start trying out and figuring out
how stuff worked *outside* of games. I was born into the "matrix" of
education (schooling works very differently from the "real world")
where you really aren't allowed much freedom and the things you learn
are often things you should probably *unlearn* (and it isn't getting
better in most parts of the USA, from what I can tell).

If you're coming from a family that already has some money, you might
not "have to work" in the sense that say... your parents have their
house paid off and you are able to live there indefinitely *if you
wanted to*. Others have to learn really fast to take care of
themselves&mdash;

The point here is that when you do start working and have agency over
some resources (namely your attention, time, money...) then you can
start applying the big-brane strategies you may have read in video
game guides *but to your own life*.

I'm not a video game hater&mdash;I've learned a lot from video games,
they often have memorable visuals, characters, music, etc. However, I
think that once you break outside of video games, you may find that
the best parts of video games do not compare to their "base reality"
analogs.

### "Digital revolution?"

A bunch of nerds that hate (physical) work tricked much of the middle
class into becoming useless, in terms of doing work *directly on the
physical world*. Merchants, scholars and others have also been affected.

There are different "traps" people can fall into. For me, I fell into
the "science/technologist" trap&mdash;I took the time to read many New
York Times bestsellers and contemplate the implications of the
worldview espoused by many silicon valley CEOs, public broadcasting,
etc.

Our culture is permeated with images/ideas/idioms that reflect certain
assumptions about the world. For instance, consider the game of
**chess**. Not only can the boards be kinda creepy and masonic
looking, the whole idea of the game is that "battle conforms to a
fixed set of rules". The superior strategist who plays according to
these rules wins.

Now, in the "real world", there are not fixed rules like this. For
example, there is always the possibility of some *weather event*
making movement from here to there slower or faster than anticipated.
Similarly, life isn't "turn based". You can see how the rise of **Real
Time Strategy** (RTS) games was an exciting development because it
allowed game designers to model battles in a potentially faster-paced,
more engaging way than board games like chess.

Talk of AI, robotics, and all of that, has gotten many people scared
into persuing "knowledge" work. They hear a story like *AI beat
such-and-such at GAME*, and then there is all this widespread fear
about humans getting *replaced*. Returning to the chess discussion
above, we see a fundamental misunderstanding about the
world&mdash;that it is something that we can *calculate* given
sufficient resources. I don't think that this is true for most "big
events"; obviously you can get pretty consistent measurements for all
sorts of processes (that's why cooking instructions work!), but I
don't think you can do stuff like accurately calculate the age of the
cosmos...

### Bad Foundations

But as I've critiqued many times in this blog, oftentimes the "skills"
that people learn in the modern world are often NOT *BASED*. For
instance,

- **SIMPing**: being a subservient sycophant on a resume so *senpai*
  will notice you
- **Bullshitting**: look at just how many articles there are on
  "imposter syndrome"&mdash;maybe this is because many of the dogmas
  of modernity are in fact bullshit, and you can detect it
- **Absurd Arrangements**: for the purpose of *money* or *convenience*
  or something else, people will outsource all sorts of things they
  should probably do themselves (e.g. "early childhood education")
  while vainly persuing some "career" set out by corporate overlords.
  
There is nothing wrong with using existing technology
insofar as it is useful and there will be many people that choose to
develop new technologies. Does this mean that we need to adapt the
entire worldview of many leading technologists? (look at talks
sponsored by companies like Microsoft, Amazon, etc)

Different sorts of people fall for different traps. As I described
above, I fell for the "brainy" worldview and considered myself a
big-brane guy for thinking about these myths. Now I can see how that
mindset acted against me as well as those around me. For others,
buying into the current regime may take forms like,

- Believing naively what PR departments tell you&mdash;e.g.
  such-and-such organization says they're "helping kids" so they
  definitely are helping kids! [^2]
- Echoing/promoting parties with agendas you don't understand; e.g.
  "standing in solidarity" with a bunch of leftists because you want
  to oppose "racism"; repeating slogans
- Buying into "entertainment"

With regards to the last point&mdash;I think there is nothing
inherently wrong with video games; they're a new kind of art form.
Novels, likewise, I don't find evil. But we need to make proper use of
everything&mdash;this includes art, music, games, and so on.

Gamers rise up!
---------------

The recent-ish "GME (GAMESTOP GATE)" story of normal "retail"
stockholders using Robinhood to make the many members of the financial
establishment sweat by exploiting market rules.

Lots of young-ish adults (zoomers, millennials, gen-x) realized that
the "rules" they've been operating in largely according to how they
were taught&mdash;e.g. aspiring to just get a corporate job and be
well-paid, buy a house, etc&mdash;have cracks, and they found an
*exploit*.

The gamers realized that if they could apply their gamer-tier
strategic thinking outside of "games" but into the increased digitized
world, that they could begin winning bigly in many aspects of "real
life"...

[^1]: **Live Action Role Playing** is a term used first to talk about
    when people dress up as knights and wizards and stuff and run
    around acting out some fiction&mdash;as a slang term it is also
    used (usually in a derogatory way) for pretending to be a certain
    type of person&mdash;e.g. talking on the Internet like you are
    some super cool computer hacker.
[^2]: Follow the money; look at what is actually being done.
