title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 57
date: 2020-09-18
category: News

Among other projects, one activity I've been spending more time on
since all the COVID-19 stuff got rolling is ramping up the intensity
of my foreign language studying. In this post, I am going to explicate
why I currently find studying European languages (mainly focusing on
Russian, some French/Spanish, a tad bit of German) more worth my time
than making progress studying the East Asian languages, which I've
already spent years studying.

In summary, I am finding that by studying the European languages, I
gain access to much *richer* materials&mdash;much of the content
you'll find in the East Asian languages (especially online) is
derivative of thinking better developed and articulated in Europe. [^1]
Thus, since I'm not living in East Asia, there's very little practical
value to get from studying these languages. [^2]

As I'm not drawn to stuff like... Tang dynasty poetry or exploring
Buddhism more, it doesn't really make sense for me to invest time in
developing skills in the E. Asian languages beyond having
conversational (and maybe blogging) skill. Read all the way through
this article for some practical take-aways.

Modern Languages
----------------

There used to be something that was fairly common in some circles
called "Classical education". People would learn how to read Greek and
Latin and would learn about the associated civilizations with these
languages.

I haven't looked in depth into the history, but I think starting
especially around the late 19th century, there were big shifts in the
Western world towards studying modern languages. For many, that meant
French which was serving as the "language of diplomacy" as well as
being the language many writers, scientists, and other eminent
intellectuals used.

Now, Modern Languages are often *the only* languages young students
have available to study in classes. It seems like we have lots of
spicy choices&mdash;a large university may offer courses in languages
like Mandarin Chinese, Hindi, Arabic or even Quechua (an indigenous
American language). [^3]

Now, what is the utility of studying modern languages? And, why are
anglophones so notoriously not interested in it?

In short, the Anglophone overlords (e.g. some really bad brits, some
Americans with a lot of money and industry) have pushed the culture of
their societies everywhere. [^4] As with US dollars, English is used and
recognized nearly everywhere in the "belly of the beast" and where its
tentacles touch around the globe. The **soft power** of the Anglophone
world (esp. its American manifestations through things like Hollywood
and now the big tech companies like Google, Facebook, ...Netflix)

Occasionally, you'll get a nerd&mdash;like myself&mdash;who gets the
idea in their head, "well, I'm of Chinese ethnicity so I might as well
follow through and learn Chinese". Rather than finding my "rich
cultural heritage", I instead find a very shallow, low-brow accessible
culture and then *geopolitics*. There is some fun and uniqueness to
studying any language, e.g. the sounds of those languages. But in
terms of the *content* available in many languages&mdash;well
sometimes it appears to be *feds all the way down*. [^5]

A Musical Comparison
--------------------

By in large, Asian pop music just copies already existing Western
genres. You can find skillfully executed vocals in Korean R&B, but it
is still basically just the American engineered R&B.

On the other hand, you will find that in "classical music", you see
many different forms of music that don't follow the 3-7 minute
able-to-be-played-on-the-radio (with commercial breaks) format that
characterizes much of popular music today.

The study of modern languages is often like hearing *the same 4 chords
mashed over and over again* with a different language over it. That's
why it is so easy for people to do stuff like... cover Disney songs in
a whole bunch of different languages. Many modern languages can be thought
of as the "disneyfication" of languages. While there may be some
different in garment and skin color, if the semantics are just the
same voices talking, what new utility does a language offer?

Conclusion
-----------

If you're going to study foreign languages, don't just be a dummy like
me and study a whole bunch of languages all expressing the same sorts
of things/ideas. This is okay to do if you have people around you with
whom it will be useful to use these languages (e.g. learning Hungarian
because you have a Hungarian co-worker spend many hours with). Rather,
study different languages with *purpose*&mdash;have something you need
to use those languages for. Then, motivation to study will come
naturally. Here's some examples from my experience of how different
modern languages I study can be useful,

- **Spanish** is often used in California and can be used to read
  non-Anglophone perspectives on things from primary sources
- **French/German** can be used to explore the thought of people from
  centuries past; this is a very inexpensive hobby as many materials
  are available on public domain (e.g. through Project Gutenberg)
- **Chinese** can be used to study how the New World Order is being
  rolled out in a different land&mdash;you can "jump the language
  barrier great firewall" [^3]

What is even better, though, is to study some *content* first (or try
to *do* something, e.g. make friends with the people speaking a
different language at the local bakery), and then let your language
learning follow. I would say for lots of "cultural enrichment", you
don't even need to study a foreign language.

You'll learn more from studying Shakespeare in depth than from
studying 2 years of Japanese. This is because you'll spend so much
time just fixated on forms (of characters, of the sound of the
language) studying Japanese, you won't be able to read anything
interesting at all.

Remember: the wise monolingual speaker&mdash;or someone using a second
language in accented/broken speech&mdash;is much more edifying to
speak with than some clown who speaks seven languages with fluency.
Clickbait YouTube has countless examples of people showing off how
they can show off; does parroting some local flavor *teach* you
anything? [^6]

[^1]: Indeed, much of the reason why we have
    "Chinese"/"Japanese"/"Korean" to study at all is because these up
    and coming nation states in the 20th century sought to emulate the
    European powers by creating standardized languages
[^2]: This would not be the case for you if I hade a spouse,
    neighbors, co-workers etc. who were more comfortable using one of
    these languages; this isn't the case now, though.
[^3]: Go to [bilibili.com](http://bilibili.com), China's weeb central
    site, to see how the Chinese nerd youth are being cultured
[^4]: So-called "neoliberals" and "neoconservatives" impose the
    primarily Anglo debt driven illusion of liberty around the globe
[^5]: In case you didn't catch it, making an allusion to the phrase
    "turtles all the way down". Regarding feds, this is to say that
    intelligence agencies would like to broadcast their messages in
    many different languages through many different channels, whether
    directly or indirectly.
