title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 87
date: 2020-12-26
category: News

While the forms which many of our modern technologies take are new,
the *basic actions* we do with them are not. It follows that wisdom
handed down for hundreds of years can be helpful in discerning
good/proper uses for these things, though it may take some work to
"translate" specific statements of old to the applications in the
present day.

How would you **describe** many of the tools of today to someone from
hundreds of years ago? Most of the *actions* we do on a computer are
just variations on things that people as a collective have known for a
long time.

A computer (laptop, desktop, smartphone) smashes together many tools
into a new form&mdash;at once, it can be a writing station, drawing
board, and library. As such, it can also be the means by which we
request (or provide) numerous services&mdash;the same standard for
what services we *should* and *shouldn't* request still stand. As one
should not wander the "red light district" of a city, so too we
shouldn't do this online. Idle talking and negligence in work can be
practiced on computers just as they can be in face to face
interactions. Simularly, empty speculation, gossip (in the sense of
relaying stuff you've heard but don't know), and straight up *lying*
can be practiced. In recent times, there is a lot of talk about "cyber
security" and protecting against scams and attacks and
stuff&mdash;there is a way in which people need to of course be
prudent themselves and not get tricked/duped, but this doesn't mean
that we should na√Øvely trust governments and/or big corporations to be
arbiters of truth for us, telling us what *is* and *isn't* of the
world. Sending letters isn't bad, but people can send letters with
truth and love or with guile and deception.

Modern Technology Challenges
----------------------------

Evidently, many people do not enjoy working with the computer
interface as much as they do using "traditional" tools like pen and
paper. Yet most of us find ourselves in a time/place where we are
surrounded by these things whether we want to be or not&mdash;chances
are that the readership of this very blog post are looking at this
from a web brorwser of some sort.

I think that the main way computers can be dangerous are
**distraction** (and related, **suggestion**). While you can align
your body to focus on a very concrete/physical task, like working on
laying bricks in front of you, setting up a computing environment to
be useful is a bit trickier. You won't find yourself laying bricks
with a host of distractions in front of you as readily as a computer
interface presents these things&mdash;here I'm thinking of how
**social media**, **games**, and other things we might do on a
computer can present themselves right in front of you as you try to
complete some task. It is like... trying to lay some bricks, and then
having all of these marketer/lobbyist types circling around you
offering you free samples so that you will engage with them instead of
doing your work at hand.

The mind also easily wanders without "natural" stimuli. Most of us
cannot read for hours on end&mdash;it takes concentration and
discipline to read for a little while, and then we need to rest and do
something else. We typically do not read for hours and hours each day.
Advertising often stalks our appetites; it is a predator and we are
its prey.

In Internet slang, we have some interesting terms. First instance,
people might speak of **"food porn"** or even **"fear porn"** (doom
and gloom news stories to stimulate you in feelings of fear/anxiety,
eager to "learn" more from the edge of your seat). Years ago, I'd
probably laugh at these terms and not realize the association between
various *stimulating* content in these not overtly sexual ways and the
other bad stuff you shouldn't look at. Yet much internet "content",
including the aforementioned *genera* operate by the same
mechanism&mdash;they appeal to the
[*passions*](http://www.orthodox.net/confess/a-list-of-the-passions.html)
such as:

- **mindlessness**, **idleness**, **idiocy** (e.g. silly, pointless
  videos, using YouTube as distraction/noise)
- **coarseness**, **loquacity**, **spurious knowledge** (e.g. being
  rude, arrogant, useless on some Internet forum; acquiring
  "expertise" in something that is beneficial to nobody and talking
  excessively about your fruitless endeavors) [^1]
- **soft living**, **listlessness**, **overeating** (e.g. loitering
  around eating snacks and/or drinking on the computer while "doing
  nothing")
- **love of popularity**, **attraction to what is fleeting**,
  **frivolity**, **mindless friendship** (easy things to do on social
  media sites)
- all the stuff associated with "actual" porn in its many forms (can
  include "fashion", animations/games, and more)&mdash;includes efforts
  put forth to acquire it, distribute it, profit from it, etc.
  
I list the things above confessing I have personal experience wasting
many hours with all of these activities. While none of these
activities may appear to be a really "big crime" like mugging someone
in the street, cheating on your spouse, or using occult magic to sell
your soul for fame and riches, they are (seemingly) small steps in
that same direction of non-repentance and soul staining badness. If
you are a spineless blob in front of your PC saying "at least I didn't
*kill* anyone", you are wrong&mdash;you're killing yourself slowly,
wasting what you've been given (especially time/attention), and
likely facilitating many others in the same path.

Using tech correctly
====================

By articulating some of the ways tech can be used in a
self-destructive and how "work" at the computer can turn to vice at
the literal click of a button, I aim to learn to correct my own
behavior.

Considering how we spend our time&mdash;not just "overt/outward"
behavior, but looking at the things we access with our senses and
think about&mdash;is something that is difficult to do. Better to
recognize the errors in our ways now and steer towards doing right now
while we have the chance rather than distracting ourselves and being
filled with regret later.

[^1]: Don't be the **Discord mod(erator)** meme!

