title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 73
date: 2020-11-17
category: News

In expressing my views on things like the Federal Reserve or the
United Nations, I've been given labels like "cynical" or
"pessimistic". I don't think that this is a fair characterization in
the sense that I don't wake up thinking about how much the world sucks
or how nothing I do matters. Quite the opposite&mdash;I recognize how
bad lots of things are, but I think that each of us can still choose
to continue *in spite* of these obstacles.

Analagously, let us suppose you have an old, slow computer. Maybe it
has crashed many times while you were trying to do work. You can
**descriptively** talk about many of this machine's shortcomings and
how it fails to fulfill many needs you have. Likewise, you can reflect
on how it is "good enough" for some things you do and think about how
you can use it more effectively, even if you plan on getting a new
machine eventually.

I think about lots of things in the USA in a similar way. I'm not
"Anti-USA" in that I've lived hear my whole life and I have enjoyed
many things because of the institutions that are in place. However, I
think that it would be wrong to cling to many of the myths/narratives
that are used to "sanctify" our present order.

Caring about a place and its people means being willing to hear
criticism&mdash;even if this criticism means that things *you may have
invested in* are not as good as they may seem. For instance, I've
benefitted from having a college degree. Writing this on a piece of
paper probably makes applying for many jobs, getting credit cards, and
so on easier than if I didn't have this thing. It would be wrong for
me to fanatically defend the college system just because I benefit
from it; if there are legitimate criticisms of higher education I
should not steer away from these just because I am in a position to
benefit from the present way things are.

If I make a bunch of money off stocks, I shouldn't take this to mean
that I'm super smart or deserving either&mdash;the system is in a
certain way and I steered my boat to exploit the winds. But this
doesn't mean I've "earned" or "deserved" anything.

