title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 78
date: 2020-11-24
category: News

Modern life is full of things that are not difficult to understand on
a level of *fundamentals*, but become increasingly complex in layers
of jargon in their modern manifestation. You can reduce some action
such as *buying a car* to an exchange of a value store (money) for an
item (the car). But if you take the time to investigate *just what the
US Dollar is* (or any other widely used currency) and then furthermore
what the things you are buying are, you may find that we've come a
long way from getting some coins as payment and using those to buy
bread and olive oil.


What is the US Dollar?
----------------------

Many people have expounded at length on this topic in great detail so
I won't deal with that here. Rather, I will focus on some key areas in
which what we think of as "money" is not some "ideal value storage".

Modern **fiat** (trust-based) currencies are **debt** based. They rely
on rich and powerful people engaged in predatory loaning practices.
Money can *be printed* [^1], and high-powered politicians and
**unelected officials** will leverage their powers to increase the
integers in their bank accounts without creating anything of value
(e.g. *doing work*).

Gradually, we're *digitalizing* money. Many people never deal with
cash at all and few own significant amounts of gold [^2]. Instead,
we're being forced to do all commerce in a trackable, highly
abstracted way that is looking more and more like "social
credit"&mdash;the idea that by being a good citizen you get little
tokens to spend at a institution approved store. In a very simplified
example we can express this like so,

```
From REAL(ER) MONEY to MONOPOLY MONEY to VIDEO GAMES

gold -> silver -> paper money      -> fiat currency -> social credit
                  (backed by gold,                     (weaponized
                   lending)                             nanny state)
```

I do a bit of stock trading (I use no technical analysis; I just buy
and sell in a "swing trade"-ish style based on who I think is making
money, mostly tech stocks). It seems like a similar experience to how
people might play these really complex video games like EVE Online.
[^3]

What is a car?
--------------

There is a sense in which a car is a useful tool you can buy.
Especially if you live in a more rural area, a car can be used to move
people and items, to get from place to place quickly and even to
shelter you from the elements in very bad weather.

In cities, cars are less useful. For many city-dwellers, other
transportation options exist that are easier and require less dealing
with liabilities/problems. If you bought a fast car, you aren't even
allowed to drive fast. A car is like a jail cell for listening to
advertisements, podcasts or both while emitting smog. Or, if you buy
an electric car, you can contribute to gathering up all sorts of
toxins in a concentrated area (e.g. batteries).

Many people use cars as status symbols. Generally, this is unrelated
to the usefulness of cars as articulated in the first paragraph of
this section.

Buying cars with USD
--------------------

I was watching some Sam Hyde [^4]&mdash;who has experience with
cars&mdash;on YouTube. Meanwhile I was doing some research into money.
That is the direct reason for writing this reflection on cars and
money.

In summary, the USD is largely fake and vice powered and talk about
how it "stabilizes world economies" and stuff, I think, is simply
globalist propaganda/talking points to further erode your monetary
autonomy. Money is not fundamentally *bad*, but what we typically
recognize as "money" today is far from a stable value store. [^5] A
useful but potentially dangerous tool has been perverted into an
instrument for enslavement.

Cars too can be a very useful tool. Or, like smartphones, computers,
and many other devices, they can be the means by which we entrap
ourselves into more and more stupidity and time wasting and resource
squandering. Paritcularly revealing is the use of cars in cities, in
which very little utility is to be gained from going beyond the most
basic functional cars (used Toyota Corolla or something similar).


[^1]: See the "money printer goes brrrr" meme with a Wojak at the
    Federal Reserve
[^2]: I think there have been laws passed about this in the USA too.
[^3]: Complicated game where you go around in space; there's
    economies, wars, and more. I haven't played this game myself.
[^4]: Comedian; I pretty much never watch comedy for the sake of
    comedy, but Sam Hyde's content contains many nuggets of wisdom and
    is pretty funny
[^5]: Unironically, my used Fender Stratocaster&mdash;an electric
    guitar I own but don't play much&mdash;is probably a better value
    store than USD.
