title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 93
date: 2021-01-14
category: News

The question of *who* (or *what*) to trust is of utmost importance.
Since we do not have unlimited time and resources, we must make
choices about what we rely on for new information or reference
materials.

Walking into a book store and choosing to read one of the top selling
books&mdash;this is not just "reading" or "learning" plain and simple.
You are approaching some material with a purpose. Maybe you're looking
for,

- advice on how to get past a particular business problem
- distraction
- affirmation to continue to doing what you're doing
- how the mind of a different **worldview** thinks

Reading popular books, you must sift through jargon, empty
speculations, opinions, political agendas, and more. That being said,
you *can't believe in everything you read*. "Reading" broadly is often
presented as an activity that is generally good to do.

While obviously reading (or re-reading) *certain* things can be
useful, it is silly to say that just *reading a lot* is good in the
same way you wouldn't want to spend all your time talking to the same
people again and again *if you did not have good reason to trust those
people*. You *could* call up a robot telephone thing and talk all day,
but this probably would be terrible...

So, who do we trust? What kind of reading is good to do?

Heuristics for finding useful information
-----------------------------------------

First, you want to find people to read who have *demonstrated their
success*. Books by smaller authors in specific domains are often good
for this. Learning how to do some basic computer programing, you hear
about such-and-such professor who is really good in such-and-such
area, or such-and-such business person who made such-and-such project.

Technical reading is often evidently useful in that it shows how to
get **material results** using a particular methodology.

Under "technical reading" here, I'll include cookbooks, workout
guides, and even self-help type books that give instructions on how to
do things&mdash;e.g. the *Getting Things Done* methodology by David
Allen, which I've referenced at least a few times here.

When we start talking about "business success", billionaires,
investing, and that sort of thing, I think stuff gets a little bit
shakier. You can ask,

- What background does the author of my book come from? (e.g. rich
  family? poor family?)
- How does this person *really* make money? (e.g. is it really just
  *making a better product*, or is it more about tax loopholes,
  government contracts, insider connections etc.)
- What belief system does this person have? (e.g. are they
  "non-spiritual"? an occult practioner?)

Questions like the ones above are important to look at because they
can be more revealing of what sort of thing you are going to be
*actually* told in some reading. Whereas "dry" technical literature is
pretty self-explanatory, uncritically accepting the advice of people
that live really differently from you or I in many respects (e.g. Mark
Zuckerberg, Warren Buffett, Donald Trump, Elon Musk...) can be an
actually counter-productive thing to do.

### General points versus what is of the times

Many programing books I've gone through attempt to illustrate general
principles using some specific language. So, while the specifics of
the languages used and their implementations may change over time,
these books contain more general information that can be useful in
designing software regardless of what software is currently
available&mdash;hence "software engineering" versus "C++/python/etc".

The point made above can also be applied to advice on investing,
property management, etc. This is because these things depend on a
particular environment, such as *California law in 2021* and *federal
reserve notes*. Just like how Microsoft might update your computer or
introduce some new software standards without your permission, so too
policy/law-makers may change the "playing field" on which you operate.

So when reading stuff, it is not enough to say "oh, Peter Thiel is a
really rich guy, so he must know how to invest so I will read his book
and learn". While I'm sure you can learn a lot from reading stuff by
any rich person, you should take into consideration what is *general*
(and thus true in your situation with regard to what you're doing) and
what is specifics, speculations, filler/fluff or just
deception/propaganda.

Repetition and Re-reading
------------------------

In the modern era, there is an emphasis on **novelty** and
**consumerism**. For a while I was using goodreads and reviewing
books. I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing to do, but I
think it is biased towards a particular sort of reading which I don't
think is often the best sort to do.

What is better&mdash;(a) to read 20 books in a year, or (b) to re-read
one good book 20 times and know it very well in a year?

I think that overall, (b) is probably better. Repeated over some
decades, you might find yourself knowing twenty or thirty books really
well. That seems like a better lifetime investment than kinda, sorta
remembering 500 books to me.

Just like it takes time to have a conversation with someone else, to
think over what they've said, to ask them to clarify certain
stuff&mdash;in the same way, good books aren't just "consumables". You
wouldn't want to meet people just to increase your Facebook friends
count (hopefully)&mdash;similarly, what profit is there for you to
pride yourself on *the number* of books you've read?

If you've read 100 books but learned nothing, that's just silly!

Clear thinking, discipline, and application of effort
-----------------------------------------------------

Reading itself is a means to an end. Just as you wouldn't want to
spend your whole life on an exercise bike, it would do no good to
spend your whole life just consuming books. You work on developing
physical fitness (in the absence of nearby mountains, lakes, etc) so
you can enjoy other things later as well as *to instill discipline*
which in turn gives you more *freedom*.

Reading similarly is a useful thing to do in order to develop
effective ways of thinking, approaching problems, and so on.

There have been very physically fit people who never used
gyms/exercise equipment (e.g. people with a physically demanding job
they do skillfully) and likewise there have been very smart, effective
people who were illiterate.[^1] 

Conclusions
-----------

Let us come full circle and return to the question of *trust*.

There are lots of people telling you to read lots of
things&mdash;should you just read *all the things?* Obviously, if you
have things to do, you don't have time to do this. Instead, you might
prioritize the things that already interest you, something a friend
read (in order to strengthen a relationship with that friend),
something that will very likely be useful to you...

One thing a little above average IQ people (search up the
"**Redditor**" character for more info) might get flattered by is
being regarded as a "bookish" or "learned" person. This often makes
them the biggest suckers to indoctrination appealing to their "nerdy"
sensibilities. Smugly sitting in a book store reading the latest
popular "science" book, they may look down on people that flip through
People magazine at the grocery store checkout. They may scoff at the
New Age store (though they may be simultaneously dating a significant
other they met at some Yoga studio)&mdash;though they themselves
simply trust everything that is being told to them by the Scientist
Wizard Prophets. [^2]

Just as we decide which *people* in our lives we trust, we should also
examine the extent to which we trust various institutions and the
official messages they put forth&mdash;this includes book
publishers&mdash;particularly if they are tied to very rich people.
What sort of content is being offered to us and why? What *isn't*
being promoted?


[^1]: There probably still are, but in modern times most people get
    some basic literacy it seems.
[^2]: These figures might not even really do science&mdash;they might
    work as policy makers and get paid a lot of money to say stuff,
    relying on PR stunts and emotional appeals and exercising their
    powers to silence disagreement
