title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 66
date: 2020-10-31
category: News

Learning a new domain of any sort will involve learning new
terms&mdash;sometimes called (technical) **jargon**. One challenging
aspect of doing this is that you will often have to "overload" words
you already use/know&mdash;learn a new specialized application of some
word form.

What is an "Object" in programing? For each programing language that
uses "Objects" in some way, there is a different answer to this
question. In JavaScript, versus Ruby, versus C++ (and so and so forth)
you will find that the technical meaning of *object* differs. To make
matters more confusing, we use the word "object" in everyday speech,
e.g. talking about "objects in a room" or even "speaking objectively".

Conversations can fail in many ways when people use the same word
forms (sounds, spellings) but fail to share the same *meanings*. In
relatively concrete domains, such as cooking, I think this is
relatively rare. Saying, "please pass the salt shaker" or "this recipe
calls for two potatoes" will be pretty easy to understand.

When moving into realms that involve more abstractions and difficult
to name things, however, problems proliferate. In the programing
example given above, we can see how words like `object`, `function`,
`evaluate`, and `return` cannot be naively transferred from natural
speech into code. Even English speakers have to learn new, precise
meanings of these terms in the domain of computer programing.

In this way it is silly to say "why don't we make XYZ language
keywords in computer language ABC to make it more accessible to
such-and-such minority group"&mdash;*everyone* has to learn new uses
for symbols when learning programing and the idea that you just do it
in "plain" English is a non-starter. People are not computers. What is
an `esac` and a `fi`?!?!?!? [^1]

In mass media, various words/terms are used to attempt to program
*you* like a computer. [^2] Associating a term with very bad feelings
(e.g. **facism**, **alt-right**) and then attaching this label to
someone/something is an easy way to quickly convey the message *XYZ is
bad*, even if the viewer doesn't have any idea about what *XYZ* is *on
their own terms*. Similarly, there are terms that the mass media uses
to instinctively train "positive" reactions&mdash;consider
**democracy**, **freedom**, **rights**, **liberation**, etc.

Saying that such-and-such *defends democracy* and *protects human
rights* and leads to the *liberation* of such-and-such-group from
*extremists* [...] is just a formulaic way to get people conditioned
to repeat slogans. Uncriticially convinced they are on "the right
side" of history, you get people marching for the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea taking for granted that it is *democratic* and *of
the people* and that it is indeed *a republic* (I can accept that it
is on the Korean peninsula, lol). [^3]

What is the solution to all this confusion? One thing to do is to
*refrain from talking about stuff you don't understand and/or is none
of your business* (most stuff on the news) and to focus instead on
learning some skill/domain, which will very likely involve learning
lots of specialized vocabulary. I don't know much about *cars*, but I
am guessing that somebody who does know about cars very often
face-palms at non-"car people" driveling on about car matters they
evidently know nothing about. Regarding car things, it is better if I
listen and just honestly say that I made some decision trusting some
authority, rather than pretending I know about what I'm talking about.
Of course, I could do my own hands-on research reading my car's
manual, watching some YouTube, poking around my car...


[^1]: Key words used in some scripting languages. Note all programing
    languages will have this-and-that syntactic requirements, like
    opening and closing parentheses; these are "artifacts" of the
    technology/form of computer programing just like human speech
    is shaped by the form of our mouths, noses, etc
[^2]: See **behaviorism** research.
[^3]: Abusing word forms and their associations often appears as the
    "**Word Fallacy**".
