title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 81
date: 2020-12-09
category: News

One major time sink is to do destructive activities to oneself and
then have to spend a lot of time undoing or repairing the consequences
of these actions. Sometimes, our work gets thwarted by events outside
of our control; for instance, one might set out clothes to dry in the
yard and then the neighbor accidentally sprays those clothes with a
hose. Other undoing of work happens through mistakes on our
part&mdash;e.g. accidentally deleting some document that took hours to
work on. The topic of this post is mostly about "I'll eat a whole tray
of tater tots and then run miles and miles later to undo the effects
of overeating".

While the logic of the tater tot example given above is pretty easy to
follow, we often undermine ourselves in more subtle ways. In this
post, I'll explore some ways in which I've undermined myself and
clarify some strategies I'm using to try to correct course.

Clarify what you're doing
-------------------------

I've mentioned in other places how I used the **dvorak keyboard
layout** for some time. Designed to be better than the default QWERTY
arrangement of keys, the dvorak layout allows for more comfortable
typing. That is what proponents of the dvorak layout, at least, will
tell you.

Assuming that the dvoark keyboard has some advantages for comfort of
typing and over the long run it can help produce repetitive strain
injury (RSI) for people who type a lot, let us evaluate whether or not
in makes sense to use this keyboard layout or another.

The first matter to examine is *typing itself*&mdash;as a tool, as a
technique, as a skill. When and where do we type? For what purposes do
we type?

A person might switch to dvorak for more effective typing, but another
question to ask is *should I be spending so much time typing?*

I think for most people, the answer to this question is *no*. I say
this as someone who types relatively a lot; you are reading my blog,
for instance. Even if I give myself an ample amount of allowed typing
for a day (e.g. I can send 10 emails, chat online for 1 hour, and
write 2 blog posts), I still think that my relative typing volume is
not so high that I need to further optimize my typing.

Now, if somehow I convinced myself that it was a good idea to type
paragraph upon paragraph of verbose prose on Reddit to prove how smart
I am to the Internet, maybe I would be typing more. But is this a good
use of your time to begin with?

### Premature Optimization

We can do lots of self-defeating, time-wasting behaviors through
*premature optimization*. That is, trying to "improve" some aspect of
how we live our lives (e.g. through "life hacks") without adequate
introspection into what exactly it is that we are doing and why the
speed or efficiency of that thing should be optimized in the first
place.

Another topic I've been discussing much in the
[Interwebs](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/category/interwebs.html)
category of this blog is **search engines**. Search engines optimize
for *something*&mdash;giving you a quick big tech approved suggestion
in response to a string of a characters. But to Google everything in a
city isn't the best way to *get to know a city and the people who live
there*. You are know more familiar than any tourist who pops through
that city if you just ask Google for everything.

So an optimization like "using Google to make choices XYZ" may give
you a *faster* decision, but it will eliminate important
activities&mdash;exploring a city, finding out things for yourself,
speaking with people&mdash;from your "workflow".

The Internet may appear to be a convenient way to make things *faster*
and *easier*, but by choosing this option you can be self-defeating by
*only knowing how to use Google* and failing to grasp the uniqueness
of the place you are in.

Take control of your attention
------------------------------

Rarely in the West do we talk about *knowing too much*. Since we begin
schooling, we're told how *more reading is better* and the image of a
"cosmopolitan person" is someone who reads glossy magazines about all
sorts of world affairs.

While being aware is important&mdash;as is being sober and remembering
useful information&mdash;there is great danger in being endlessly
distracted and bombarded with unimportant choices.

### The cost of knowing

I don't use coupons very often, but I know many people are very keen
to chase after deals and promotions. For someone with an already fixed
plan about what they are going to eat, what they will need, etc.,
coupons can be a useful way to cut costs.

However, for the "food tourist", coupons can become a driving force in
one's life, sucking away time and attention for what&mdash;saving a
couple of dollars on a burger combo?

Similar things can be said for activities like *trading stocks*.
Someone who does some investing or trades on a relatively fixed
schedule can benifit from this activity. The person who constantly
checks Robinhood on their phone suffers greatly from watching the ebb
and flow of stock prices.

For a while, I made myself scattered brain by studying too many
languages. Without a plan for "boxing in" what times were appropriate
for which languages, I wasted a lot of time and attention with
questions like, "should I review Japanese now or look at some Spanish
verbs?" For the single-minded, focused individual *this isn't a
problem*. Similarly, for the person that knows how to *outsource work*
this isn't an issue; we can develop ourselves in many ways, and no one
individual can know all the languages&mdash;obviously. So the
sensible, normal person chooses their battles. Better to do pushups
than learn Hindi grammar.

Some of us are nerds who are slowly learning to do better...

### Toolbound

To know how to do certain things, you need to have certain objects or
infrastructure around you. While a guitarist might know some general
things about music, a guitarist is much more expressive *with a
guitar*, which functions as a kind of extension of the body.

It seems that there is a lot of strong dependency *by design* in many
places&mdash;including the corporate world. Many company employees
cannot do most of the things they do at work away from the
infrastructure of their corporations&mdash;they use complex software,
navigate complex bureaucracies, make and receive payments through many
mechanisms, and so on and so forth.

One way in which we can be very self-defeating is to get overly
involved in some one tool or thing which we *do not have good reason
to believe will continue to be around*. Of course, for every job, you
must learn some *specifics* of what you are doing&mdash;here I am more
concerned with investing excessive amounts of time in *a particular
configuration*.

For instance, you might have a very elbaorate set-up of custom hotkeys
in a video game. First, you should ask *why you are playing games* to
begin with (not to say this is bad, but it should be kept in check).
Second, you should have reasonable expectations about whether or not
the developer of your game will break your keybindings with patches,
updates, and so forth.

There are many frustrated Apple users who constnatly are fighting off
breaking changes to MacOS. Probably the same for Windows. I have
pretty much given up on making custom keys to do things more
efficiently on computers. 

Remain vigilant
---------------

Frivolousness, idle talk, and negligence are the proximate causes of
much pain and suffering. We must be on the guard against
self-defeating behavior by purposely aligning ourselves and working
diligently.
