title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 36
date: 2020-06-11
category: News

Today I will extol the virtues of *paper books* (aka "dead tree" book)
in one particular domain: *language learning*. Specifically, I'll be
looking at language learning materials for the purposes of reading.

Wanting nice stuff
------------------

Briefly I was wanting an e-ink display; it seems that some cool new
things are being developed such as,

- [BOOX Ebook Reader/Notetaker Products](https://www.boox.com/product-2/)
- [Dasung E-Ink Display 13.3"](https://www.amazon.com/Dasung-Paperlike-Front-Light-Touch-Monitor/dp/B07SKS6CS7/ref=sr_1_5?dchild=1&keywords=e-ink+display&qid=1591973925&sr=8-5)

Rather than being a hero for the economy and immediately buying stuff,
I decided to turn my attention to many of the things I already have
and see how I could make better of these things rather than seeking
new things.

This was done while shuffling some displays/peripherals/etc.; a
similar spirit to fussing with (physical) config to make things nicer.

Advantages of paper for language learning
-----------------------------------------

I got a bunch of reference materials for language learning in paper
format. Do check out my various pages on
[languages](https://captainalan.github.io/language-and-linguistics/languages/index.html) if you haven't done so already!

### Typesetting

Often, paper publications will contain fancy typesetting that is
helpful for learning purposes and not usually present on resources
like websites. For beginner to intermediate learners especially these
things are helpful to have.

In Japanese, paper publications aimed at learners (e.g. children,
weebs) will often contain <i>furigana</i>, pronunciation marks over
words. Now, you *can* automate a similar function pretty well using
browser extensions or with the aid of a pop-up dictionary (like
[Rikaichamp](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/rikaichamp/)
for Firefox). However, sometimes these tools can give ambiguous or
incorrect results&mdash;nothing beats manual annotation (it is like
having an authoritative native speaker by your side).

Similar things exist in other languages. For instance in Russian,
texts for learners often label **accent** (e.g. accented *Ру́сский
язы́к* "Russian language" vs the normal orthography *Русский язык*).
Arabic only marks long vowels usually; short vowel markings will
annotate texts for learners.

Having these annotations readily available in learning means you can
spend more time language learning and less time fussing with tooling.
By having resources available to conveniently learning things
correctly *the first time* as you are exposed, you can save time in
the long run.

### Multi-booking

Some of the aforementioned advantages can also be found in PDF books.

However, nothing beats having a bunch of paper books open *and* your
computer and other stuff.

Books are like... little high quality ink displays. You can have a
bunch of "displays" set up&mdash;a dictionary, a grammar reference,
and some text you are trying to work through.

"Well", someone might say, "one advantage of using a computer/PDFs is
having *your entire library on demand*". Sometimes, this is good. But
often for intense study I find I don't really need or make use of this
advantage. At any given time, how many hours are you going to spend over *N*
books? 

Paper books mean setting things up to see all the info you need right
at once.

### Portability/Robustness

This heading is relatively self-explanatory. Books don't need
batteries. You can ad-hoc upgrade them with annotations, book covers,
and more. Books are often not so expensive to replace if stuff goes
bad.

Final thoughts
--------------

The advantages of digital materials are readily understandable for
people that make daily use of them. Particularly nice are things like
search functionality, indexing, and other features that require manual
lookup in paper books.

One question to ask is *where is the bottleneck of my learning?* I've
found that just contemplating some key term *while fumbling through an
index* has in fact been helpful for helping me remember concepts.
Thumbing through a dictionary has helped me discover things about
languages I would not have otherwise seen if I had enjoyed near
instantaneous results.
