title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 118
date: 2021-04-07
category: News

There's this quote that is attributed to Bruce Lee that goes something
like,

> I don't fear the man who has practiced 10,000 (different) kicks, but
> the man who has practiced the same kick 10,000 times.

Another way to state this&mdash;it is better to be
*very good/effective* at one (simple) action than to add confusion and
variety prematurely.

Economists will talk about **scarcity**. We have finite time,
attention, and resources and so on. Now, if you get better at doing
some one action, it becomes cheaper and cheaper to do. You can beat
out all your competition doing that one action. In lots of RPG-type
video games, characters have "skills". In many, many games what you do
is "max out" one single skill first rather than distributing your
skill points broadly across many. In playing the game, your *one*
powerful skill will drive your play style. As you progress through the
game, you will probably use more than one skill (otherwise the game
would get boring), but the general principle still applies&mdash;it is
important to get very good at one thing at a time. You might be able
to do the "bare minimum" for some other things to have more options,
but it will be your strong skill(s) that really do most of the work
for you.

Continuing on this RPG game analogy, your character will probably have
stats like "STRENGTH", "INTELLIGENCE" and "DEXTERITY". In a typical
game, different character classes will make use of different stats. So
a swordsman might have very high strength and some dexterity whereas
some kind of wizard/magician character won't need very much strength.
Does this idea apply to "real life"?

Insofar as our *bodies* are concerned, I think this does apply. For
instance, if you train a lot of upper body strength, this may be
helpful for swimming or chopping down trees with axes. However, this
will add extra weight for a long-distance runner that doesn't help
with long-distance running so much. So our bodies can "optimize" to
fit particular activities we do. Likewise, people necessarily have to
focus on learning different things&mdash;if you want to get good at
playing guitar, you're going to have to decide whether or not you are
right or left-handed first. Then you train your right hand to do
certain things and your left hand to do other things. Coordinated
together, you make music. But your knowledge is tied up in your body.
If you flipped your instrument upside down and reversed your hands,
your knowledge wouldn't be able to instantly transfer/manifest itself
*in your playing*.

This is why it is important for us to *do* and to *practice* and not
just have "head knowledge" about how stuff works. "Idle knowledge" is
knowing how to do something&mdash;e.g. *learn another language*, but
then *not doing* it. Most of our hours should not be spent in just
"learning" (like attending class, learning theory), but in the
*practice* of activities whereby our theory becomes something that can
affect change on the spaces around us.

Computer Mediated Action
------------------------

Computers (and software, more broadly) are complex tools that
*mediate* our actions. Whereas writing a letter by hand on a piece of
paper is pretty direct, the convenience of using a computer comes at
the price of fitting everything to the form that *a machine* likes.

One could argue something similar is going on playing a piano vs
playing a harp; the machinery itself constrains the types of actions
that can be done. Loss of control in certain areas allows more
efficiency or options in others.

As tools themselves become more complex, we see a lot of off-loading
of "skills" to machines themselves. So rather than skills, but
*knowledge* of *what* to do becomes important for doing more.

Since we have computers, lots of people do a lot less handwriting.
Many people feel awkward/uncomfortable writing by hand because they
are so accustomed to typing on keyboards&mdash;or even more abstract,
using the input methods of things like smartphones and tablets.

Is this a problem?

Insofar as our tools behave as we expect them to, then there isn't a
problem. However, what I have noticed is that when skills are highly
dependent on a very delicate/particular arrangement of stuff, you can
quickly find yourself in trouble if you don't have more
basic/fundamental skills. For example, very specialized knowledge in
one programming language (say, `FORTRAN`) can allow you to work very
effectively on systems that use that language. However, you will need
a lot of time to get "up to speed" working on a new system. Working in
a whole different domain entirely will require even more specialized
training. So a scientific computing `FORTRAN` expert will not readily
be able to do PHP web programming.

If all the computers went down for some reason, there would be even
more trouble.

This is the trouble with a lot of "high tech" learning. Relying on
specialized systems too much means humans forget how to do that one
kick that Bruce Lee fears and instead turn us into 10,000 different
kicks people who don't really know that they're doing. Dissipation of
energy and attention!
