title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 84
date: 2020-12-16
category: News

Some issues with many of the *platforms* of the Internet is that they

1. subject your work to centralized control 
2. restrict the *form* of the content you can produce
3. may exercise editorial control over your content

The idea of centralized control here is that by doing something like
uploading a video to YouTube, you are giving YouTube control over a
lot of data. If you don't keep your own backups, YouTube might delete
your work. On the other hand, the old adage that "when you do
something on the Internet, assume it is there forever" rings
true&mdash;you can never really be sure that a platform like YouTube
deletes something when you click the *delete* button. For all you
know, they have some big file collection of "things users wanted to
delete". No matter what types of legislation are passed, you are
forced to trust third parties to be faithful to their word. Oftentimes
your arrangements with a big platform are very impersonal&mdash;you
are one data point, not a client to have a personal relationship with.

The second point here relates to *what form content you make* can
have. On Facebook, for instance, posts can only be so many characters
long, cannot contain things like charts or even bold or italicized
text, and will appear on users' screens in a way you have little
control over. Formats like YouTube's videos now *appear* much more
free&mdash;a kind of blank canvas to share content in many formats.
However, any prolific video creator who makes relatively "high
production value" videos will be able to tell you about how copyright
strikes and other issues can erase hours of careful editing effort.

The third issue raised here is one that is very pertinent to anyone
making any even slightly -controversial content&mdash;you may bet
"shadow banned" (removed from searches) or outright censored/deleted
for your work.

Solid foundations
-----------------

While there is no *final security* in anything material in this world,
we can look ahead at how certain platforms/places are more likely to
cause us trouble than others and seek more *robust* solutions.

For instance, having a *physical library* is a good way to make sure
you can access certain texts. While you may maintain digital copies
for purposes like quick searching and indexing, it is not difficult to
see how electronic copies (or even worse&mdash;streaming/subscription
services) can work against the person interested in storing/archiving
valuable knowledge.

Before investing a lot of time in doing something like *building a
YouTube following* it is prudent to listen to people who have already
invested thousands of hours into these platforms and then had their
work demonetized or removed. Could they see this coming? How did they
prepare? What did they wish they did(n't) do?

One strategy I'm trying here is to make all my stuff (mostly writing)
in an easy to copy and distribute format&mdash;git source controlled
text files. So while today I may be using GitHub pages, I understand
that GitHub might go bankrupt or decide to delete a lot of content or
something else in the future. In such a case, I could just use a
different host for the pretty generic files I have.

Archiving audio/video material is more complicated because these files
are typically much much larger&mdash;that is a topic I may have to
look into further in the near future.
