title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 123
date: 2021-05-15
category: News

Continuing on the topic of **tools**; how can writings be useful?

Many books are tools. We can look at for what ends they are created.
For example, dictionaries are often created to help people do reading
and writing of other books. Reference books are so-called because you
refer to them when trying to do something else (e.g. writing a letter,
interpreting some written message).

Some types of books are a bit harder to figure out. What is the
purpose of a *novel?* Many people write books to *make money*. Many
"classics" are written for more elevated purposes I
think&mdash;expressing enduring truths to audiences in accessible
language. Probably similar things can be said of games. These just use
new media (i.e. the platform you play them on; visuals/sound/etc) but
may be created with the same purposes that many books in former times
were most popular for. Growing up in the 90s, I saw stuff like
**magazines** everywhere (still in supermarkets and some places you
can see them)&mdash;what is the purpose of these?

Rituals of Modernity
--------------------

I think I've heard the present era called a kind of new "golden age of
television". One effect of the wide availability of so many different
options of things to watch is that as a society (and I'm writing as a
Californian) we often lack much common ground. Most of the co-workers
in some office may watch *some* show together, another group of
friends might only watch Japanese anime. Another household might only
watch re-runs of old shows. And many may choose to not watch *any* TV
shows or even own a TV/streaming device/etc.

Since 2016 at least (I'm sure all of these tactics/actions go back
further, but with the Trump presidency is when many people started to
look at these things more closely), the *News* has re-asserted itself
as a kind of "common ground". Whether we're talking about public
policy, required trainings, or even conversation openers, the News has
re-asserted itself in a kind of "secular clergy" role. [^1]

Whereas a religious community might find itself re-united proclaiming
teachings passed down, people eagerly await for headlines to offer
them *new* guidance. That's why it is called the *news?* Haha.
Interesting etymology to maybe investigate later.

Much News offers a *mediated* view of the world. Rather than
hearing/seeing things directly, we have reality interpreted to us
through words, images, sounds, etc (most people can recognize how a
news network they *don't like*, e.g. Fox news for people who identify
as "left leaning" employs these tactics; a *theatre!*) And so we see
contrasts of how stuff is framed&mdash;a *peaceful protest* or a
*riot*; maybe even an *insurrection?* Feelings are attached to labels
through repetition such that we can effectively *feel* what is being
conveyed even if *programming* is just running in the background.

Back to tools
-------------

So what use do lots of "current events" media/writings/etc have? One
might find it useful to keep their own records on stuff, for example
through recording dates of births, marriages, deaths, and so on.
Likewise there is book keeping required for doing business. Then,
there are things like this blog (as well as YouTube videos and other
things made by "everyday/normal" people) which kind of act as logs or
points of discussion for relatively small groups of people&mdash;maybe
you can consider them almost like "taking *minutes* for meetings".
Looking back at this blog for instance I can see what sorts of things
captured my attention enough to write about.

Just as individuals may do this, organizations can (and sometimes
*must*) report on their activities as well, and very often they have
people working in **public relations** (PR) to do this in a very
deliberate way.

Governments, corporations, and the like are no exception. Particularly
in a relatively **democratic** society where people are expected (or
at least *asked*) to have views/opinions about stuff, it is the *modus
operandi* for many parties to pester the public. Advertising!

Priming, trial balloons
-----------------------

Two other functions of lots of media these days is **priming**
(getting people ready for some stimulus) and **trial balloons**
(testing the public's response). You can see how "click bait" is used
with the latter; for example, last year at this time, you would
probably have a lot more negative reaction to "vaccine passports".
Now, I imagine that the public at large is more ready to accept this
(I haven't looked at any numbers).

An initial "trial balloon" may have shown a largely negative reaction.
Emphasizing "public safety", sowing fear about "cybersecurity/fraud",
etc may push people to move from initially viewing some kind of
digital passport as scary/evil to something familiar (you already have
a social security number, don't you?) and necessary for protecting the
public (you wouldn't want *just anyone* to be able to drive a car,
would you?).

Priming is getting a response ready; so for example, there is a lot of
talk about "cyber attacks". I'm not going to be surprised if we hear
about (probably Russia, North Korea, or Iran) how the US is *under
attack*&mdash;`digitally!` Talk about cyber attacks is often
associated with how much more interconnected our world is and how we
might experience problems with infrastructure etc. So our leaders
pushed us to make everything interconnected with computer systems
(Internet of Things and more) and now... oh no! We're vulnerable to
cyber attacks?!?!??!

Recognize the genre, don't just read the words
----------------------------------------------

Texts are tools; so are laws and many other "programs" that run our
world. Rather than taking the na√Øve approach that some people looking
out to help us are just giving us cool/useful things to think about
(this is kind of subjective; enterprising people will seek out and
find relevant information) we can see how words, images, and sounds
are used to get things done in our "high tech" society.

[^1]: Some may call it "the mainstream media" or "the legacy media"
