title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 100
date: 2021-02-12
category: News

Is it time to throw a hundreth post party?! Nah; let's instead talk
about how *counting* and numerical measures in general are used as
(artificial) markers.

What is the significance of a 100th post? That a blog has been going
on for a while? Why not celebrate a 98th post? Especially considering
that I don't write new posts here on a regular schedule (e.g. daily),
what does "100" even signify?

Here is where we start to talk about *meaning*. Different numbers *do
mean different things to people*.

If Bitcoin goes above $50k soon, that will be a psychological
significant marker. It is "halfway to $100k".

Numbers are words we use to describe reality just like other words.
For many people, just adding numbers to stuff makes it sound "smart".
Spouting a bunch of numbers is sufficient to confound many people and
make them accept you as an expert. [^1]

The Cult of Data-Driven Decision Making
---------------------------------------

People these days are obsessed with counting stuff and then turning
knobs and flipping switches to optimize things. While certainly there
is a time and a place to optimize stuff, the efficacy of optimizations
can only help as far as the underlying assumptions about how some
system works.

So for example, an educator might optimize some cirriculum such that
students score as high as possible on some kind of standardized test.

Has *LEARNING* therefore been optimized?

Well, the students may improve at taking some specific type of test,
but this doesn't imply that education got "better" in a more holistic
sense.

Similarly, people might apply this sort of thinking to topics like
diet. Someone might try to go for a maximum "low-fat" or "low-carb"
diet. Sure, there are correlations between certain metrics, but does
optimizing for one of these things miss other important "big-picture"
questions like *what is my relationship to food* (to begin with).
Furthermore, only looking at metrics like those found on nutrition
fact labels may not distinguish between important considerations about
what we're eating&mdash;is "grass fed" the same as "normal" meat?

Putting on the blinders of numbers can be helpful for focusing and
improving certain systems. However, as illustrated by the **thought
experiment** of the "Artificial Intelligence" system that decides to
exterminate all humans in order to optimize paper-clip production,
narrowly specified goals (often which rely on some numeric accounting
thing) can lead us to engineer our own destruction.

[^1]: Please don't use this tactic.
