title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 14
date: 2020-05-18
category: News

This morning I was going through my inbox for a not-used-so-much email
account. I hadn't cleaned out this inbox for a month or two so. On
this email account I'm subscribed to some newsletter things, so I was
able to take a step back and view how the whole "COVID-19 pandemic"
*thing* has unfolded, from a kind of third-person, detached
historian's perspective.

The Unwritten Narrative
-----------------------

There is this saying that, "hindsight has 20-20 vision"&mdash;when
looking at the past we can feel all clever and sharp minded [^1].  It
is easy to say to oneself, "ah yes, I was right about such-and-such"
because we can pick and choose statements we have made and aggregate
them into a 100% correctly guessing narrative. The hazier these
statements are, the easier this task is because there will always be
wiggle room to get out of falsification.

This is one danger of chilling out and just "analyzing". You can
analyze all day; what makes your analysis valuable? Telling somebody
else that they should have listened to you?

### First, instruct yourself

To have "skin in the game" is to act on one's word. Saying words
about stuff is OK, but as another saying goes&mdash;"actions speak
louder than words". If we are so clever in our predictions, we should
act on those predictions and reap the benefits of having seen what
others could not. You don't have to worry about others recognizing
that you *were right about such-and-such* if you reap material rewards
for your predictions.

In this sense, I am enjoying wealth in that I had bought enough toilet
paper&mdash;I heard news of trouble getting this stuff relatively
early on from East Asia. Hooray! Glad I purchased that...

On the other hand, I haven't really profited financially much from all
this COVID-19 action. As many stock prices plunged and crypto did what
crypto does (be volatile), I decided that I didn't even wanna
think/deal with this. I wanted some money on hand to pay for stuff
too, so I didn't "buy the dip" [^2]. Recalling how much of a pain in
the butt to file taxes for 2019 I didn't wanna deal with all the
capital gains stuff if I did indeed profit nicely. So I opted to not
"play the stock market" and instead focus my time/attention on nerd
stuff (technical learning for work) and self-improvement stuff.

I was quite lazy and not clever enough about the financial stuff in
retrospect; I just withdrew and let the market (and the Federal
Reserve and friends) do what they do. Now, I get my default rewards&mdash;
magical money inflating prices despite slowed down economic
activities, less complicated finances/taxes for the coming year... But
you know... I could have made more...

I feel okay about the decisions I made with regards to stocks and
stuff though because I got what I bargained for&mdash;freed attention
to concern myself with other things, rather than watching lines to up
and down [^3].

### Reject Economy, Embrace Gains

In contrast to my total under-achieving in terms of shuffling integers
(trading stocks) during this Bat Pestillence, I've been able to
extract "guaranteed returns" in some of my own projects.

Analyzing and making predictions about what other people do is often a
risky game. On the other hand, working on your own understanding of
stuff and developing your skills often is a pretty *work hard and get
paid* type of setup.

Developing yourself makes you better prepared to enter riskier
situations later; for example, if you are playing a sport, to maximize
your chance of winning a competiton, you gotta train. Duh.

Lots of the media we consume is by people trying to establish
themselves as experts on such-and-such, telling you why you should
care about this-and-that, and so on and so forth. When do we regret
keeping up with that sort of content?

Reading some old newsletters, I would say... it is fun to keep up with
news to understand humor/memes/stuff people may share with each
other. But to keep up with a bunch of random stuff that has no bearing
on one's own life&mdash;I think that most often when I look over some
stack of stuff I *didn't read* I don't wish I had consoomed more.

However, people rarely regret having studied a marketable skill,
completing a workout routine, cultivating a network of friends/family...
This is no new news.

[^1]: Of course the most present interpretation of some world
    happenings doesn't mean it is "right"; "hindsight has 20-20
    vision" is more like knowing how a novel unfolds than knowing
	about *what actually happened* for lots of stuff
[^2]: I likewise didn't sell before all the COVID-19 stuff started up
[^3]: See [Confused Stonks](https://knowyourmeme.com/photos/1720217-stonks).


