title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 12
date: 2020-05-15
category: News

This morning at eight something AM I decided to drive out a bit to
deposit a check. Though I didn't really *have* to drive, I figure it
is useful to make sure my car starts at least once every couple weeks;
I haven't been outside of a small, less than two hundred meter radius,
of where I live recently anyways.

On the way to my ATM, I pass some businesses. As it was pretty early
in the morning, most weren't open, but some were and they were hopping
with customers.  The drive through line for Starbucks line was
long&mdash;spilling out into the main street. Trader Joes had lots of
people filtering through the parking lot. Maybe about 1/8 people I saw
were wearing a mask of some sort.

The shopping center where my ATM is located has a relatively big
supermarket. The parking lot was by no means full (expected) but there
was a regular shuffle of people going in and out. Lots of loitering
type activity all around, though this particular shopping center
usually clamps down pretty hard on that sort of thing.

It's a pretty nice day outside. I cook up a pot of legalized
stimulants (caffeine via coffee). 

In many ways, stuff is still going. People find ways to communicate
with each other. People find ways to get enough to eat. People find
places to sleep. Announcements of children to be born do not stop. 
Maybe fewer people are getting married within the next few months.

Still, the "news cycle" continues. Every day there *must* be
stories. Eyes must scan newsfeeds and see advertisements. Some people
I know would go to McDonalds anyways even if there weren't
advertisements for months. But the dining halls of the (corporate)
public space are still closed.

I hear private conversations beginning with, "of course nothing is
going on, we're all locked down", or something to that effect.

Often, *no news is good news*. I go do some chores and organize some
stuff for work...


