title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 102
date: 2021-02-16
category: News

Just a little rant on tooling today. I've been returning to some UNIX learning
stuff, which has me again studying the problem of "personal computing"
generally. As *modern* people, what relationship do we have with computers?

The tools we have affect how we approach problems. Windows is very *corporate*
(as in big tech, corporations) so the solutions that appear to someone who has
bought into the Microsoft ecosystem are often very, well... *Microsofty*.
Indeed, there are tried and true ways to do lots of things by handing over
control to Microsoft. These may not be the most "elegant" solutions with
computers, but they do Just Werk (TM).

If we move beyond the names of particular products and instead start to think
about stuff in terms of *simple actions* we are doing, I think that we can
often arrive at much better solutions than the "one-size fits all"
*enterprise* solutions.

For instance, let's suppose you're trying to solve the problem of "backing up
files". What you want to do is to make sure that certain data which is
important to you is saved on multiple pieces of harddrive (e.g hard drives).
Now, a typical solution to this problem is to use some **cloud** service like
Microsoft's OneDrive. Automatically, files local to your machine are copied
and saved across mutliple servers *owned by Microsoft*. For many customers,
this is an acceptable arrangement. They trust that Microsoft will do a good
job making sure they don't lose their files in the event of something like...
spilling coffee on a laptop. 

However, there are many disadvantages to just using the "default" option.
Firstly, what if *you* want to own/control the hardware you're saving stuff
on&mdash;you might not want to give Microsoft all your data. Or, maybe you're
okay giving Microsoft *some* data, but you prefer to not have other data on
foreign servers. "One-size fits all" solutions typically don't offer finer
mechanisms of control to set up what you want.

On the other hand, if you build your own solution&mdash;this is one thing I'm
working on&mdash;you solve the original problem of backing stuff up, but *you
don't need a third party* (like Microsoft, Dropbox, etc) stepping in. You are
more *robust* by being decentralized&mdash;problems affecting big corporations
need not affect you. Similarly, you can be aware of just *how* you scale your
own solution; this might mean buying up cheap used computer hardware to make a
more robust system through redundancy/copies.

It is hard to start thinking about *alternatives* if the tools you have always
suggest a particular way of doing things&mdash;

This is one of the reasons I kinda detest smartphones. Smartphones are all
about doing stuff *how an app tells you to*; on the other hand, even some
relativelys imple machine like a kitchen timer or a pencil can be used
in infinite ways of *your* choosing.
