title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 67
date: 2020-11-02
category: News

Many of the difficulties we face are those of our own choosing. Today
was a tough day for me in some ways, but the troubles I can think of
were all of my own causing. Doing web tech work, it is no mystery
today why I had to spend many struggling to make Internet technologies
do stuff. Nobody *forced* me to choose staring at screens, shuffling
symbols and dealing with complex abstractions was a path I chose to go
down. And so, sometimes I must endure suffering that comes with that
type of work&mdash;being humbled by not being able to solve some
problem quickly, sluggishness of body from sitting for long periods of
time, and a mind tired from focusing on details that will probably go
out of fashion within the decade.

Negligence is also a source of troubles. Failure to properly maintain
equipment can lead to dealing with the aftermath of equipment failure.
Likewise failure to maintain good habits and routines will lead to
slow decline.

Agency in Failure
-----------------

Sometimes it is tempting to brag of **agency** in success&mdash;what
role *I* had to play in something that turned out well. Maybe a more
edifying direction to turn to is to see how I have had agency in all
the troubles I bring on myself.

Lots of things we don't choose&mdash;e.g. which famliy we're born
into, many aspects of our childhood/upbringing, and *accidents* of our
personalities.

However, lots of things we *do* choose and with a little introspection
it is not hard to see how we *could have done better*. In retrospect,
probably most people would be delighted if they could have "magically"
made it such that they studied such-and-such language, or maintained
relationships with so-and-so, or practiced some skill. On a day to day
basis, though, we neglect to do many things that we might wish we had
done if we could get these things for "free".

Choosing to go to school will bring homework upon you (especially if
you choose a demanding major). Likewise, getting oneself into social
obligations might be costly in terms of you having "time to yourself"
for silence, reading, writing, reflection, etc.

Especially for those that gain freedom to "make their own way" (e.g.
by living on their own) the responsibility of freedom becomes heavier.
While a grade school kid can legitimately say "the government forced
me to go to school", the "college aged" will typically have a weaker
case to make saying that they were "forced" into higher education or
some other arrangement.

Insofar as we claim agency in our success, I'm thinking we should
probably even more so claim *agency in our failures*. We play a huge
part in being the authors of our troubles until we decide to turn away
from being our own worst enemies.

Recognizing our agency in failure means also recognizing our agency to
choose *not to fail* when similar trials come our way. Whereas one
might have made bad choices in the past from failing to do research
and being too passive, or conversely being overly confident and
aggressive&mdash;there is a common denominator which is *how we choose
to live day by day*.

Some ways in which I "shoot myself in the foot"
-----------------------------------------------

Probably one of the main ways I cause trouble for myself is by
"spreading myself too thin"; that is, trying to do too many things and
thus becoming a "jack of all trades, but master at none". This is
evident in my language study; I've spent many hours studying a lot of
languages, but am probably less *useful* for most practical
language-related applications than someone bilingual in say... English
and Czech.

A related issue is that I lack *refinement* in many areas. I can pull
of a "good enough/functional" in many areas but then get distracted by
other things and thus *choose* not to put in the time to "finish what
I've started".

In some things, I think I work fairly hard, but in other ways, I am
often relatively negligent. For instance, I'm only beginning to get
involved in the arts of physical training but I've spent many years as
a somewhat chunky nerd. Like many Americans, I am not too practiced in
many forms of *(rote) memorization*. I'm relatively skilled at a
handful of forms of "reading" (e.g. scripts of various languages,
software documentation, music...) but am quite underdeveloped in
recitation.

I think there are probably many more ways in which I undermine myself
which I will explore in later posts. The things mentioned here are a
recurring source of me choose failure, however, so I think it is worth
putting in writing here.
