title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 113
date: 2021-03-27
category: News

Where I am from, they would tell you to look up at the sky and see the
stars&mdash;balls of gas millions and millions of miles away. They would say to
visit them, you need to travel *light years;* light goes really fast, and a
year is a long time, so the distance light goes in a year is *really far*.
These are not distances that you or I can readily conceptualize apart from
equations. Stars are distant, the story goes, and we can't actually see what
they are doing *right now.* Rather, we're looking into the past, seeing dim
"light echoes".

Certain **stars** behave differently; that is because these are **planets**.
Likewise, you may see airplanes, satellites, and other objects in the night
sky&mdash;that's how the story goes at least.

In the night sky, you can view the moon. But curiously we only see one *side*
of the moon. The "dark side of the moon" is hidden from us; due to how stuff
rotates, we only see one side of the moon.

Visiting an observatory or looking through a telescope, you may be able to
confirm facts like "Mars appears reddish" or that some pattern of stars
(constellation) has indeed moved from here to there in the sky.

However, there seem to be an absence of "intermediary photos"; we are lacking
in *missing links* from what we can observe and confirm with our strongest
lenses/cameras available to normal people here on Earth and the images that
cost parties like NASA ga-ba-jillions of dollars to produce. For some reason,
despite having really good cameras, images of space use a lot of computer
graphics. Curiously, the quality of the images (c.f. *photographs*) we have of
"outer space" seem to parallel graphics and image manipulation technology
capabilities which we know Hollywood and now big video game studios have.

Some additional observations/questions:

- Why does the [moon in the
  daytime](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/moon-daytime) appear as a transparent
  disc, roughly the size of the sun? [^1]
- Why can't I find any *photographs* of satellites in space? [^2]
- Why do "satellite TV" dishes get pointed at nearby towers, rather than upward
  towards where you would expect a thing in "low orbit" to be?
- Why does the United Nations' flag depict a disc/flat earth?
- Why does the earth look pretty disc-like/flat in [actual video
  footage](https://youtu.be/6WlI24rv__g)? Note too how lens distortion and
  other optical effects can change how we see "lines"&mdash;e.g. a GoPro is a
  "wide" lens, whereas if you are taking a portrait, you'd typically use a
  narrower setup.

We are told that we are living under "secular" governance, or that there is a
separation of church and state here in the United States. I think that this is
not the case&mdash;rather we have a state religion that asks for complete faith
in the **Astronautic fathers**; that is, that we unquestionably believe the
reports of very few people who are literally federal agents to construct a
worldview. [^3]

The implications of adapting the NASA religion are far reaching. Firstly, an
account like the "big bang" presents the idea of creation *ex nihilo*; stuff
just *coming to be*. Everything is regarded as fluid/changing, bolstered by the
speculative theory of Darwinian evolution (and a million variations thereof; it
is not a unified account). [^3] While you can try to cope and reconcile this
with a traditional religion view like many Roman Catholics and liberal
protestants try to do, this train of reasoning leads to the view that *God
created death*. So you must believe that creation is good "just because" trying
to smash these things together.

For a while I tried to reconcile the NASA worldview with an interpretation of
the Bible I was taught. But as described above, stuff didn't really line up
with my intuitive understanding of what is "good". Why not embrace a Buddhist
position where all life/creation is suffering that we must somehow *transcend?*
In Internet lingo, `MAKE IT STAHP!`

Providentially, through studying "science" further&mdash;learning "how the
sausage is made"&mdash;I came to understand how empty a lot of the "knowledge"
of our day is. [^4] Quantifying/counting stuff and applying a formal model
doesn't imply you understand something better, just that you've created a
system to try to optimize for something. Consider how Chipotle might have a
speedier setup for ordering certain types of burritos, but it doesn't "solve
the burrito problem" any *better* than less corporate options; doing more sales
of a particular form doesn't mean you found the "best burrito model".

As issues came up, I began to ask simple questions based on observations, like
the ones I brought up here. Simultaneously, I began to learn about the
esoteric/occultic leanings of many key figures in our scientistic era. For
example, you can look at the history of
[psychonautics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychonautics) and how bad brits
interested in drugs and eastern mysticism have influenced American culture in
all sorts of areas&mdash;entertainment/arts/music, government, education, and
so on. You can find public information on how [Jack
Parsons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jack_Parsons_(rocket_engineer)), a key
figure in the US Space program, as into creepy [Aleister
Crowley](https://www.gaia.com/article/aleister-crowleys-famous-thelemites-a-misunderstood-magick)
occultism.

"Science" has never been separated from "religion", though the specifics of how
*scientia* and [*techne*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Techne) (from which we
get the word *technology*) are done and split up have changed. In 2021, the
cult of **STEM** (Science Technology Engineering Math) effectively means
learning/practicing the Babylonian arts of our current age&mdash;trying to
numerically predict the future, attempting engineering a stable society. [^5]

Filtering Technological Applications from Worldview
---------------------------------------------------

Lots of the "science" of our era produces *no practical results*. For example,
there is no real "practical" application of Darwinian evolution. Believing some
speculations about bones you've never seen and other unfalsifiable claims
passed as facts will not influence your work beyond maybe getting you fired for
being a "science denier". You can lay bricks, carve wood, program computers,
make trades and so on without a care in the world for *hominid* this or that.

Similarly, it practically doesn't matter if you believe the world to be round
or disc-shaped. Experientially, the world is flat; you know if you jump up, you
will fall back down to the ground. It doesn't matter if you explain this with
"gravity" and other equations.

Globe-zealots may get angry at you and tell you that their worldview is
*obvious*. But if you approach the world with child-like wonder, asking simple
questions, you will find that lots of the *scientia* of our day isn't accepted
based on solid proofs, but rather on *trust in authorities*.


[^1]: Traditional cosmology accounts will refer to the sun as the "greater
  light" and the moon as the "lesser light", governing timekeeping/seasons
[^2]: You can find lots of photographs of "satellites" on the ground, CG'd
  images, and photos of "lighter than air vehicles", and fancy kites.
[^3]: Note too how people talk about "the vaccine"; but really there are a
  whole bunch of different treatments, many of which *are not vaccines*. 
[^4]: Language tells us a lot; The Latin term
  [*scientia*](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/scientia#Latin) from which the
  English word "science" comes from means "knowledge", not something more
  narrow like "that which emperical tests have not yet falsified". See Luke
  Smith's [Not Related!](https://notrelated.xyz/) podcasts for some accessible
  takes on how science is done and the limits of modern man's understanding.
[^5]: In the book of Daniel, Israelites under captivity also learned the
  arts/culture of the day&mdash;there isn't a contradiction between learning
  current technologies/methods and understanding where
  esoteric/occultic/religious elements are introduced
