title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 37
date: 2020-06-16
category: News

We are now midway through June. 

What's going on with COVID-19?
------------------------------

With regards to Coronavirus stuff, I think that the numbers that
*really* matter most are: *are there shortages of hospital
facilities?*

This is an important, practical way to look at things because it is
saying *are we seeing worse effects* (from the flu and other things)
compared with other years? COVID-19 specifically is a mystery, but
whether or not hospitals are totally overrun is something that is
easier to see. Insofar as hospitals *are not* totally overrun, I think
that we have room for optimism.

Counts of COVID-19 cases and stuff are not so informative because the
way we've been getting these counts are far from uniform.

### Society Stuff

Yet, we still see lots of people around doing stuff like writing "THE
PANDEMIC ISN'T OVER" in chalk. In stores, perhaps *most* people are
wearing some kind of mask thing of some sort.

As far as I can see, there hasn't been a mass return to physical
office spaces though it looks like some people near me are starting to
plan on this.

Some Predictions on the Post-COVID-19 World
----------------------------------------

What I see us drifting towards is a cyberpunk-ish (dystopia) like world. [^1]
COVID-19 has revealed how fragile much of American society
is&mdash;people living paycheck to paycheck. Many people have few
people to turn to for emotional/financial/etc support; maybe physical
workplaces provided *some* of this (e.g. through seeing co-workers,
that was enough human interaction to keep going). It seems to me that
most people in most places seem to have general dissatisfaction with
what is going on.

**Populism** and **democracy** (in the sense of voting for stuff to
affect policy; whether directly or through representatives) are two
forces we can expect to see a lot more of. Urban people in particular
can be expected to try to *vote away problems*. I do expect to see
more chaos/civil unrest.

How might this be quelled? One avenue I can see this happening is that
mega-corporations and government may be able to provide **basic
needs** (e.g. food, basic hygiene, housing) in urban areas. Digital
IDs (such as Google accounts) rather than permanent addresses may be
how these things are tracked.

Overall, this lock down business has been very tough on small
businesses. Many mega-corporations are doing quite well overall it
seems, as reflected in measures like stock prices. In this way, we can
expect to see large-scale problems continue to pop up *that only very
large businesses can deal with*. Big companies can do the heavy
lifting of logistics, and populist politics and democracy can force
them to give basic needs to people. Insofar as people are dependent on
these big companies (and government policies that make it so they must
provide certain things), the elimination of the worse sort of poverty
can be avoided and society can continue. These large
companies&mdash;with government money injections&mdash;willl be able
to provide many jobs to occupy people's time. Some examples include:
stocking shelves, customer support, maintenance of facilities, and
security services.

Urban areas will be places of mass consumption (through a handful of
big companies), near-total surveillance (facillitated by smartphones),
and constant nagging through ads.

### Characters

There may be some "Buddha" types that live on the benefits of these
systems, but really don't care about all the hype and stuff being
generated to keep the populist machine going. This person may log in
to their XYZ accounts as required at work, get a paycheck from a
megacorporation, and then spend very little of it to get necessities
and route the rest to some practical needs (e.g. investing for a home
elsewhere). They patiently await breaking the cycle of suffering, and
in the mean time cultivate mindsets that allow them to thrive.

There will be "community organizer"/"activist" types who take to this
sort of environment like fish and water. The useful propaganda
officers of the government and mega-corporation alliance, these people
will provide the "grassroots" feelings to people on the ground, motivating 
normally non-political people to repeat the correct slogans and
present the correct branding to signal their allegiance. Note that,
gov'ts and megacorporations may make use of **controlled
opposition**&mdash;similar to how when two sports teams play against
each other, the NBA (or whatever-organization-oversees them) "wins" no
matter which team wins the ball game.

There will always be politicians. The appeal of being a politician
will increase with respect to how powerful/invasive the state is into
people's lives.

There will be masses of normal people who just go along with the
current times, trying to get by while enjoying some material comforts
along the way. The people will be most of us, and they will be like
water, flowing and adjusting with the times. Unlike the "Buddha"
character, they will not think about transcending/breaking from this
cycle at all. Rather, they will be medium by which various parties try
to execute their agendas.

[^1]: Stuff like "Dystopia" vs "Utopia" may be a matter of
    perspective. Echoing some thoughts brought up earlier&mdash;one
    might say the same thing about heaven/hell. If being near God
    means badness for you, that may be "hell". If it means good
    things, it could be "heaven". I'll have to look more into how this
    sort of... unitary/subjective (not quite sure how to characterize
    it) view has been expressed.
