title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 75
date: 2020-11-18
category: News

Today's entry is about **knowledge**. Specifically, I want to discuss
the nature of reading information in places like books and websites
and how the activity of reading relates to acting in the world.

Collectively as a society in the USA (I mostly know California), there
is great value placed on *book learning*. And so people with a strong
aptitude for this (e.g. can score high on the SAT, LSAT, GRE) can
often find high-paying employment in a white-collar work environment.

Phrases like "reading comprehension" and "critical thinking" can be
found all over educational materials. How these things are often
tested is by presenting some big block of text (e.g. some reprinted
magazine article) and then asking some questions about that passage.

While learning how to pick apart the meanings of sentences, read
through dense prose with reasonable speed, and and answer specific
questions from written reports is not a *bad* skill to have, it is
only one technique for understanding the world and it is one that can
be dangerously misapplied.

Writing and Knowledge
----------------------

If you found a piece of paper on the ground in a parking lot that said
something like,

> Supermarket
> - Eggs
> - Milk (Whole)
> - Ground beef
> - Sesame oil (for Chinese cooking)
>
> Hardware Store
> - Wood glue
> - AA Batteries

...you would likely infer that you had stumbled across some kind of
shopping list. Maybe the person using it dropped it while loading
groceries into their car.

The **document** you found isn't like most books or websites, but you
can make a good guess at what it is because you have likely made use
(or seen someone else make use) of a similar type of thing.

You *know* how to read this document, assuming it is a grocery list,
and because it is not *your* grocery list, the contents of it don't
really matter. You can help toss it in a trashcan or just leave it
(maybe the person that made it will drive back noticing they lost
their list).

The knowledge/skill you have is how to create and interpret shopping
lists.

### Books, Articles, and More

Let us now return to **books**, (Internet, magazine) **articles**, and
other publications you will likely see at **newsstands** in airports,
public libraries, and other places where mass-publications are often
found.

We can ask&mdash;who produced these materials and for what reasons?
Most people will take published materials at face value, especially if
they haven't tried their hand at publications of any sorts. Magazines
filled with ads can be presumed to provide some interesting "content"
to people interested in fitness, cooking, guns, etc. A *news* magazine
can be expected to tell you about what is going on the world, maybe
with some opinions/commentary by someone working in say... Iran.

Here is where a grocery list becomes very different from much of the
reading people busy themselves with. A grocery list serves a pretty
specific, self-explanatory purpose. Magazines and popular books often
serve subtler, less-obvious purchases. Consider,

- A book by a (current) celebrity: probably aims to make you
  interested in and/or *like* this person more
- An account of some political/military event; "current events":
  likely wants to frame some situation in a way so that you have a
  sympathetic viewpoint towards some action
- Popular science: get you familiarized and comfortable with some
  ideas that may be rolled out at scale (e.g. *Personal computers*),
  sell gadgets/tech
- Fashion/beauty stuff: establish trends, sell beauty products

The "reading comprehension" skills described at the beginning of this
post prepare you to read and internalize the *messages* these
publications push. You can *repeat* what such-and-such and such has
said. But does doing this guarantee you *learned* anything? 

Talking Points
--------------

Just like you can name endless details about Pok√©mon or some other
fictional entities, one can be pretty skilled at quickly browsing and
internalizing the **talking points** of various reading materials.

The purpose of many publications is to fill your head with talking
points that in turn lead you to be more sympathetic to other positions
using similar language. For instance, most people don't want to be
called a *racist*. So there is a lot of literature out there that
pushes talking points explaining why such-and-such is(n't) racist.

### Case Study

Through the Sam Harris podcast [^1], I've been exposed to
numerous ideas. Here, I'll recall some off the top of my head
(probably won't be hard to find if you try to look them up):

- The dangers of AI take over (Max Tegmark talk)
- Lab grown meat as a way that we can be well-nourished and not have
  ethical problems that might otherwise motivate someone to become
  vegan
- Having regulatory/governing bodies in place to protect public
  discourse from *fake news*
- Specific doctrines in Islam (mostly Wahabi/Sunni) are incompatible
  with liberal western democracy; reform of some kind needed

One can listen to hours upon hours of podcasts (or read many, many
books), but *learn* very little beyond being able to repeat points
like the ones above.

If we look *beyond talking points* and see what exactly someone is
trying to say/advocate, we can skip a lot of reading homework.

Sam Harris seems pretty transparent about many of his goals; he is a
self-proclaimed atheist who I think is interested in having an overall
peaceful, prosperous society *which steers away from a 'greatest
possible suffering' scenario*. He seems to espouse a kind of
**incrementalist** approach, wherein we make society *gradually*
better (as opposed to doing some quick, violent, revolution), and he
seems to be **optimistic** in the sense that he find the accumulation
of "expert knowledge" to be sufficient for guiding humanity as a whole
to have better and better lives, generally, by his definitions.

Thus, someone that is already on board with the general attitude of
Sam Harris will likely find his southing voice and amiable guests to
make for pleasant listening. Talk of new technologies and stuff opens
the door for fun speculation about *how the world could be*.

Basically, you can read reality as a kind of progressive march towards
a "utopian" type of Science governed society optimized for human
well-being on a kind of minimize-pain ultilitarian metric. 

If you are on board with this worldview and in the position to make
policy-decisions (whether locally in your own household, in a small
business or elsewhere), listening to more Sam Harris might be useful
in exposing you to many new "hacks" to progress towards these shared
goals. Likewise, trusting Sam as a calm and knowledgable fount of
knowledge, you may vote along the political positions he espouses too,
trusting that he has your same goals in mind.

Ramblings about filtering what you read/watch
---------------------------------------------

Now, if you fundamentally disagree with the worldview of Sam Harris
and think that he is wrong in his most basic assumptions (e.g. as a
religious person, you reject the atheistic scientist "clergy" of
experts) to hear all the details that follow from Sam's worldview will
probably not be interesting or useful to you.

Likewise, if you believe that someone like... Thomas Jefferson was a
fool, a racist, and all the other bad things, you would probably not
benefit much from reading his writings at length unless you were being
paid to do just that for whatever reason.

Getting back to books and articles, I think that *looking at the type
of stuff we're reading, we can save a lot of time by actively choosing
to NOT read certain stuff*.

On one hand, this is obvious. But for many it is not because growing
up many of us are just told that *reading* (generally) is good. If
you're reading a non-fiction book rather than watching a TV, you're
being a smart-smart rather than a dumb-dumb, right?

What I'm saying here is that this *is not so*, and that using basic
"philosophy" techniques of looking at what people's presuppositions
are, we can "cut the chase" with a lot of content and save our time
and energy to do other things.

Probably the fastest way to do this is to talk to knowledgable people
about subjects you are interested in reading about. For example, you
may be looking for a book on *how to draw*. A friend that is skilled
in drawing might point out a book to you and say "everything in here
is useful for developing your skills except for Chapter 13 where the
author just rambles about some latest educational technique that was
trendy when this book was published". Here, a helpful guide helps you
avoid wasting your time on trying to make sense of some talking points
that might add more confusion than clarity to your main aim.

Conversely, your goal might be to *understand another person's
worldview*, and so rather than trying to filter out presuppositions
you think are wrong, you might want to read the most "brainwashed" of
the brainwashed books. I've posted reviews on Ayn Rand's *Atlas
Shrugged* and of many of the *Harry Potter* books. While I myself was
not naturally drawn to reading these books for the content within them
itself, I wanted to understand how someone that espouses particular
ideology describes the world operating, who appears heroic to them,
and so on and so forth. So I read these books aware of some of the
biases/preferences of these authors and it was helpful for me to
understand why certain ideas appeal to certain demographics.

### "Fact or Fiction"

Some texts are informative in a pretty direct and obvious way, e.g. a
technical manual on operating some machine or a foreign language
bilingual dictionary. For many other works, however, things are not so
obvious. What is a book on WW1 trying to accomplish?

In this way, reading "fiction" vs "nonfiction" can often be more or
less the "same thing" in the sense that you get story telling in both
genres trying to get people to hold some view or repeat some talking
point in some form or another.

Through reading, we can learn stuff by looking outside of the (often
speculative) words of texts themselves but analyzing first *what
people are trying to accomplish* with particular documents. oftentimes
people will just come out and say what this is&mdash;a Buddhist might
tell you a book is promoting Buddhism by reading it you can reduce
suffering, for instance. Other parties are trickier. Be especially
wary of anyone who claims to be "unbiased" or giving you "just the
facts".



[^1]: Sam Harris is famous as one of the "new atheists" who got some
    controversy by criticizing Islam. Among other guests, he has done
    interviews with many technologists and "science populizers".
