title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 91
date: 2021-01-09
category: News

Today, I'm just collecting up a few hopeful useful thoughts I came
across.

Some tips from watching TechLead
--------------------------------

The past couple days I was watching some videos of this YouTuber with
a channel called TechLead. I assume much of his audience is
nerd/engineer types. So he makes a lot of good points for people that
tend to fall into traps like getting obsessed with retro video games
or trying to optimize everything with technology.

### Don't get overly attached to some technology/methodology

To be skilled in some programing language or technology is not a
*problem*, but to be overly concerned with technical details and
problems while failing to deliver a product is no good. Being a
successful "software engineer" means being able to get things done
with technology. Sometimes, this will mean focusing on marketing and
human-to-human aspects of working with tech solutions, rather than
crafting the "perfect technology".

### Don't waste your time trying to make people think you're right

If you produce results, no explanation is needed. People who fail to
get things done can often explain for hour after hour *why*
such-and-such didn't work. They may be correct in a lot of their
analyses, but this doesn't help anyone if they don't apply the lessons
they learned.

Study notes
-----------

Memorizing stuff happens little by little. Trying to memorize too much
at once will make you discouraged and may disrupt a routine of
day-by-day repetition, which will produce memorization.

Studying consistently&mdash;even if not much&mdash;day by day is more
powerful than putting in a huge effort every now and then.

In popular psychology/business books, people will talk about the force
of **habit**.

By working hard each day and slowly refining our methods to do better,
we can become people that know things and can do things that only come
with long experience. Sure, reading a short articles can give you the
"general idea" about lots of stuff&mdash;this is like fast food
compared to the "nutritious meals" of working through problems.
