title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 19
date: 2020-05-23
category: News

This is a "long weekend" for many Americans as [Memorial
Day](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memorial_Day), which is observed on
the last Monday of the month of May. There will be fewer picnics and
barbecues this year as policies in response to COVID-19 are still in
place. Law abiding citizens have still not recieved "the green light"
to go and spend time with family and friends.

End of Days
-----------

For many people, this "three day weekend" is no different from
weekdays or normal weekends. Work, social life, etc. means the same
sort of *physical* thing&mdash;waiting at home for some policy to give
options for *actively making things better*. [^1] There are economic 
limits to how much people can take; insofar as our current way of
doing money/economy operates in basically the same, we are witnessing
widespread strain&mdash;perhaps threat of collapse in some places. [^2]

Many scheduled things are still in place; businesses, schools, and
other organizations are doing what they can to honor
contracts&mdash;delivering content online, following by phone,
etc. However, for many, the concept of "days" erodes as they "are just
waiting for all of this to end". The obedient and the conservative
wait; meanwhile many people move out to "test the waters" of the
re-opening world. Where I live now (Sacramento, CA), it seems that
"the flu times two" has been overestimated... [^3]

The response of many people is to return to daily life as much as
policy permits. Walking outside, I see groups of people (probably not
from the same household). People waiting for take out food stand
apart, but it seems they are honoring "personal space" more so than
"social distancing".  In other non-COVID times they wouldn't be
getting close and cozy with each other.

I maintain my schedule as usual, as much as I previously had a
schedule. Sometimes I try to add more schedule/structure than I used
to&mdash;actively trying to structure my time more to squeeze out some
extra productivity. I suspect others are doing the same. Going out to
walk/jog, I see lots of routine-governed-looking people walking dogs
and stuff so I think I'm not alone in this.

The Next Reaction
-----------------

How will stuff proceed from here? As expressed in [Part
6](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/corona-virus-diary-part-6.html)
of my Corona Virus Diary, I think that we will *not see a "universal
vaccine"*. Without a decisively helpful medical thing, I think that
the next events people will need to respond to will primarily be
dealing with policies of various "stages" of re-opening.

Insofar as economic activity seems to be recovering, politicians will
be eager to take credit for stuff going well and will encourage
additional re-opening. Insofar as COVID-19 seems to be a scary
disease, we'll see conservative measures of keeping stuff shut
down&mdash;politicians don't want to be credited for being heartless,
death reapers overseeing the disaster for economic gain. 

Rather than seeing a shift towards *more* digital stuff, I think that
this COVID-19 situation has reminded many people of how important the
face-to-face interaction aspect of school/business/etc. is&mdash;I
predict many people explicitly choosing *human* options when possible,
especially after this stuff fizzles out.

I think that COVID-19 will have a lasting impact on "trusting of
experts"; people from all sorts of political camps have seen how
money, influence, etc. has pushed the sort of narratives that various
actors and organizations promote. Maybe in another post I'll further
discuss my thoughts on how perceptions of "globalism" are
changing... Let it suffice to say for now that many students' study
abroad plans have effectively been trashed by Corona-chan.


[^1]: Vaccine? OK from government to re-open? Celebrating health care
    workers is easy from the comfort of my home with finances going
    alright&mdash;for those getting economically smacked down, living
    vicariously through celebrating people "doing the right thing" in
    cute/fun YouTube videos isn't so viable as rent is due
[^2]: Examples of alternate moneys/economies include people who have
    food/shelter/"money" that don't depend on the US dollar (thinking
    about things from an American perspective here; same analysis can
    probably be generalized). There are ways to get food/shelter
    besides using money, e.g. somebody in need staying over at a
    friend's place or moving back in with family. Here, *social
    capital* and a reputation of being an agreeable, respectful person
    pays more than capitalistic ambition.
[^3]: The term expression "flu times two" (or some other *N*) implies
    that this whole COVID-19 thing *is* worse than a "normal" flu
    season, but probably not on the magnitude justifying the
    scale of responses we've seen governments rolling out. 
