title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 17
date: 2020-05-21
category: News

It is trashcan pickup day where I am, which means walking around
outside in circles is less pleasant. Sometimes I have to step off the
sidewalk or otherwise navigate around an obstructing
trashcan. Sometimes I have to move to dodge some stink.  On top of
that, there are leaf blowers filling the morning peace with noise, a
person or two standing in the shadows possibly doing drugs...

Infrastructure exists; my city is still going. Otherwise, there would
be no trashcans out to be picked up. This much is nice.

I reach a bridge overlooking a freeway. The road doesn't look great
(trash and stuff around, some areas in need of repair), but its scale
is impressive&mdash;it vanishes into the horizon. If someone told you
that you had to run across the freeway, you might feel tired just
thinking about it. Cars move quickly because traffic is significantly
reduced during these COVID-19 times.

Near the freeway bridge is a train station. I don't really know who
uses this train [^1], but it is there and it is operational. Heaven
knows that there are people in other cities all over the place
petitioning for funds to be allocated to build a train. I like to pace
around on the train platform sometimes because there are no cars to
hit me there.

A rack for fancy bikes to rent stands empty [^2]. The past year or so
I rode these a few times; it was really fun to ride an
electric-assisted bike, especially when visiting Davis (about half an
hour or so from Sacramento; where I did grad school and still have
some contacts) so I wouldn't have to disassemble and bring my own
bicycle. Are these gone temporarily? Or will they be gone for good,
with skeletons of charging stations past littering these
semi-corporate streets?

The city is less strained under COVID-19 because overall there is less
movement. Like an exercise in fasting, the city itself is probably
"thankful" for the reduction in traffic. There is time to chill out,
to heal. City road work and stuff resumes (I've heard and seen it)
with less interrupting traffic. Some experimental things (like the
JUMP bikes) may or may not return; is this like trying alcohol during
college and then quitting afterwards?

I'm wearing a hat fit for a relaxed boomer barbecue paired with some
dark sunglasses (아저씨 패션); it is the season where looking shady is
the way to *not* get bothered. For this morning, I enjoy LARPing as an
industrialist surveying their city from the ground level rather from a
fancy VIP suite. The sober stillness of underused infrastructure is my
pacing ground, the gasoline motors of gardening power tools provide my
industrial soundtrack...


[^1]: Sacramento, CA; most people I know drive or ride bicycles most
    of the time&mdash;maybe take the train for funzies once in a blue
    moon
[^2]: Uber's Jump Bikes
