title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 97
date: 2021-01-27
category: News

The subject of this post is **idle learning/study** which can be
contrasted with learning/study that is *profitable*. I've been very
guilty of learning about all sorts of stuff&mdash;often things that
nobody asked me to learn and really that nobody near me is too
interested in.

The reasons I have done this so much are many, but there are some big
trends. First, we have a culture (in the West, United States) that
gives some prestige to "trivia" in these sense of "knowing random
stuff". One might say that much of entertainment is predicated on
this&mdash;more sports games, for instance, generate more statistics
for people to know about. Without some immediate work/task in front of
me or another clear goal, I have been lead into a lot of *idle study*
to just do *something* potentially useful in times when I lacked
direction. Second, there is the matter of *ego/pride*. You may be
aware of the "condescending nerd" stereotype&mdash;some tech
professional looking down on everyone who doesn't have the exact
domain-specific knowledge he does. There is a sense in which the IT
guy is *right* in that he does know stuff others don't. But the
arrogance of the IT guy is misplaced in that his own skills may go
obsolete (and so he could get fired), there are other people more
skilled than him even in his domain, and of course the people he is
looking down on probably know lots about other (useful) things he
doesn't know&mdash;e.g. a CEO may be hiring him to do some tech stuff
as to not have to waste valuable time with some really confusing
technology.

Third, I think that having general world knowledge and doing
exploratory study of various things is not bad in of itself.
Similarly, *cake* itself isn't evil, but of course you shouldn't eat
cake everyday. Similarly, getting distracted by random this-and-that
when there are more important matters to attend to.

"Market Backwards" Approach to Learning
---------------------------------------

I've been studying some entrepreneurs on YouTube. Specifically, I've
been looking at the work of **FIRE** (Frugal Investment Retire Early)
type approaches. Lots of interesting people in this sphere...!

One fellow, Sam Ovens, shared a thought I found particularly helpful
in a video titled something along the lines of "You don't have to be
an expert" (I'm typing this on a slow computer so I will not dig up
the specific video now&mdash;we can discuss the idea even without me
digging up the timestamp and URL!). What Sam shared was this idea of
the **"market backwards**" approach.

Rather than getting some skills (e.g. `LEARN TO CODE`) and then
rushing to the market to see how those skills may fit in to the
current marketplace wherever you may happen to be (this would be
called the "market forwards" approach), you *start with the market*,
looking at what sorts of problems people have which they would *pay
money* to have solved.

Then, you can learn the appropriate skills in a short-ish period of
time to accomplish whatever you need to. For many things, you don't
even need to become an expert. Let's look at *creating a website* for
instance. There are many Wordpress experts out there&mdash;should you
become one of these people? Maybe if you have a job lined up, this may
be a good idea (that is, there is a *market waiting for you*).

A better approach, however, might be to hire out the appropriate nerd
labor *OR* to just use some adequately flexible template type system
that is already tried and true in the marketplace to accomplish your
website building needs. Rather than hiring or training an expensive
developer (this may be spending $100k or so a year), you can learn
enough about web technologies to know what *you want* and then take
care of the business side of things making sure the right work gets
done rather than wasting your time being frustrated over some large
tech company's choices of software design.

Advantages of Exploratory Learning
----------------------------------

Knowing various things about various stuff can be useful for getting
connected with different people, finding new clients, and so on and so
forth. Retarding language learning, you may have heard that "just a
little bit of time spent learning the language of a country you are
going to visit will really impress the locals".

More generally&mdash;people appreciate it when you put forth even a
little bit of effort to understand them&mdash;this often means
understanding what sorts of problems they have to deal with. This also
might mean *business opportunitites* for you; by listening to people
and finding out what they need, you also position yourself to figure
out how to have a mutually beneficial relationship where you provide
the desired/good services. 
