title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 54
date: 2020-09-05
category: News

During these locked-down times, I've been given the opportunity to
work on studying foreign languages again, which is good fun. Here I
share some additional tips, tricks, and insights which have been
helpful to me. Eventually, I plan to integrate this content into my <a
href="https://captainalan.github.io/language-and-linguistics/learning.html">language
learning</a> page which has additional information on this topic.

While I specifically discuss learning foreign languages here, I think
the topics dicussed here are sufficiently general that they could be
applied to all sorts of learned skills (e.g. computer programing,
playing piano, making bookshelves).

Introduction
------------

**Practice** is refining movements. **Study** is becoming familiar
with models that are useful for practice (theory). When we are able to
do something or understand something we were not able to before, we
say we are **learning** something. Through study and practice, we
learn. [^0]

Once you recognize a pattern (e.g. word, grammatical construction) you
can refine your movements. Learning the spelling and morphological
breakdown of a word, or a sentence structure can be called "studying"
in that you are learning the "theory" of how a language is put
together.

Once you understand what you are looking at, you can become familiar
with the specifics of how/when that form is used and refine your
movements reproducing that thing (whether through speaking, typing on
a keyboard, etc.).

Amorphous blobs are impenetrable; they must be broken up ("analyzed").
When approaching something new, there may be overwhelming complexity.
Learning how to break down a very complex thing into smaller,
learnable pieces is how we acquire proficiency in using larger more
complex systems.

Language learning, early stages
-------------------------------

When approaching a new foreign language for the first time, you are
approaching the aforementioned amorphous blob. You don't know where
word boundaries are, when you do recognize words you cannot tell how
they are related to surrounding words, etc.

### Don't forget your theory

To start, you need some *theory*.

Learning by immersion often involves a patient native speaker (or a
computer program) giving you small, digestible pieces of information.
For example, you may learn how to name many of the things around you:
*tree*, *bench*, *COVID-19* (just kidding, but maybe not really).

Likewise, you can take a much more Western, direct approach and grab a
bound dead tree (book) and get an idea of what you're looking for. You
could watch YouTube or something like that as well, but you might have
to sift through a lot more noise before getting what you're looking
for.

Once you have something to look for (e.g. recognizing some top 100
words), you are already to start practicing. Typically in classrooms,
you will be drilled on producing/understanding basic sentences for a
while. This can be a decent approach if you get to use these sentences
in some memorable situations.

### Media dumpster dive

In the age of the Internet, you may get faster results using other
techniques. No matter what you do, focus on one thing at a time during
these early stages: e.g. grab a long video (2 hours) and just listen
for all the cognates that you can recognize. When you recognize a
word, repeat it to yourself so you can become familiar with the sound
of your target language.

*Focus* is key. This is why you *shouldn't watch anime with subtitles*
(you can find plenty of weebs who do this and know almost no
Japanese). What happens is that instead of focusing on the form of
Japanese, people lose focus and just read the subs. This is *no
bueno*. If you MUST be a devout weeb, first watch with subtitles for
the meanings, then rewatch the video you're looking
at&mdash;understanding what you're watching having already read the
subs&mdash;and listen to the language.

### Memorize just enough, not too much

When learning a new word *make sure to learn at least some of the
relevant information for using it correctly in context*. For instance
in learning a European language like Spanish or German, you will have
to deal with grammatical gender. Do memorize the grammatical gender of
a word when you learn a new word. [^1]

It is a good idea to *integrate your knowledge* of lots of separate
things. For the East Asian languages, you may want to pay attention to
other words you know that share Chinese characters the word you are
learning. For instance, there is 내일 *nay-il* 'tomorrow' and 일요일
*il-yo-il* 'Sunday' which share 일 *il* meaning 'Sun'. One could*
learn an East Asian language on sound only, but knowing the associated
Chinese characters makes acquiring more vocabulary much easier.

You can likewise integrate your knowledge *across* languages for
related languages. For example, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean share a
lot of vocabulary&mdash;much of which is the product of Japan first
modernizing during the *Meiji* era and making up all sorts of new
words for Western imports. [^2] Likewise, learning French or German
would probably be a pretty easy choice for a new foreign language for
a native English speaker. There are many similaries in grammar and
sound between English and German and French vocabulary is almost
*given* to the English speaker.

What you don't want to do, however, is get *too caught up on details*
such that you fail to do more important practice. The scarce resources
you are working with are *time* and *attention*. One mistake I made
when starting to learn Chinese/Japanese/Korean was to get too focused
on the writing system and lagging behind in my listening and speaking
skills. I didn't have this problem with Spanish because I would listen
to Spanish language radio while driving in my car.

Beyond beginner level
---------------------

At a certain point, you will get pretty comfortable with most of the
grammar of a target foreign language. From this point on, the new
challenge is to expand your knowledge of vocabulary, learn idioms, and
other language-specific things.

With the basics in place, you can begin using your target language(s)
to further learn your target language&mdash;learn in the same way that
native speakers deepen their command of their own tongues.

[^0]: This does not employ an "equality" of study and practice; there
    are people that do more study, people that do more practice, etc.
    Which you do more of depends on what your goals are.
[^1]: For some languages, you can most often tell the gender of a noun
    by the form of the word, but this is not always the case. For
    instance in Spanish, words that end in *-o* are usually masculine,
    but you have *las manos*.
[^2]: A linguist might quibble with you and say "Chinese, Japanese,
    and Korean are not related" with some reference to syntax,
    morphology, or something. Maybe, I dunno. But they share a lot of
    vocabulary and that is good enough for me.
