title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 83
date: 2020-12-15
category: News

Looking at the tools we have in front of ourselves today, an exercise
you can do is to ask *what sort of thing* is some modern invention.
For instance, before automobiles there were *chariots*. Now, we have
digital tablets but in earlier times there were *stone/clay tablets*.
There are a number of **types** of things that seem to be "primitives"
of human experience, at least back to our earliest written records of
large civilizations. [^1]

Computers: Digitalizing Analog Processes
----------------------------------------

With computers, we have the **"desktop metaphor"**. Just as you might
have files and folders on a wooden desktop, so people fill their
digital desktops with files and folders. Applications are like various
tools&mdash;for instance, you might take out drawing supplies to do
some drawing and likewise there is computer software for drawing,
painting, sculpting, and so forth.

Understanding the more "basic" task of what we are doing (e.g.
*writing a letter* vs some complicated technical procedure) can help
us be more effective at what we're doing.

People who want to get seriously good at something&mdash;for instance,
3D modelling&mdash;will need to practice the traditional arts of
drawing by hand or sculpting with clay. It is easy to get caught up in
the myriad of features available in some modern software suite, such
and lose sight of the fundamental things which make our work high
quality. Refocusing on the *underlying analog task* returns us to what
is natural for us as humans to work with.

Organization Strategies
-----------------------

One technique I've talked about at least a few times in my blogs is
the **Getting Things Done** system for organizing many projects and
getting the complexity of an information-driven society *out of your
head* and onto pieces of paper *or* some computer system.

This system, and other comparable organizational tools/techniques (see
for instance the *kanban* system, Trello, and others) provide a way to
get organized in a rather *software agnostic way*. If you succeed in
getting organized with any one of these systems, it won't matter if
you're using Windows or Mac OS or just a notebook&mdash;you should be
able to *implement* a successful information management office space
for yourself.

In its modern manifestations, probably most people that make use of
these systems use some kind of digital tool. But this is not
necessary&mdash;these techniques could have just as readily been
taught to ancient peoples provided they had sufficient command of
reading and writing tools. [^2] 

Don't mind the tooling too much
-------------------------------

You can look at the "lifespans" of many tools we have in front of us.
Even things we may view as rather old&mdash;such as the
*piano(forte)*&mdash;may be relatively new on the timeline of recorded
human experiences. A piano is really a kind of stringed instrument, a
lute or harp thingy with hammers... and there have been very skilled
people at playing stringed instruments through all centuries.

Identifying the more basic action you are doing, you can focus on
mastering enduring techniques which you will apply with your specific
tools, but also which you know you can apply to other tools in the
future.

For instance, to learn to play piano or guitar, you can explore
learning techniques attested hundreds of years ago.

While the popular "science" of our day may give us a new language to
talk about things&mdash;e.g. terms from psychology like **flow** of
positive psychology to describe being "in the zone", focused on some
activity&mdash;we should not presume that our *experiences* are
anything new under the sun.

We face the same sorts of challenges that humans for hundreds of years
before us faced&mdash;

- boredom
- fatigue
- anxiety 
- envy/jealousy
- laziness

...by assuming our tooling doesn't make *us* better, we can learn to
do better work by learning from people more accomplished than us even
if they happened to be using less fancy/specialized tools.


[^1]: In linguistics, there is this thing called the **Swadesh list**
    which has some basic concepts expected to be linguistic universals
[^2]: Maybe they wouldn't even need this if they could put servants in
charge of memorizing short lists of information day by day.


