title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 68
date: 2020-11-05
category: News

Election stuff is going on, but I'm not watching any news. I will hear
what others say and thus kind of follow what is going on, but I
understand that the election outcome isn't really something that is
under my control, so it is a waste of time and energy to get worked up
over following it.

The strategy I am describing here&mdash;just talking to friends and
stuff but not watching the news&mdash;goes beyond "not watching TV"
(and instead looking on the Internet). Indeed the Internet is
plastered with election stuff all over the place. We temporarily have
a new "favorite American past time" (which many non-Americans seem to
take a lot of interest in as well).

No, you cannot just "go on the Internet but not read about election
stuff" if you simultaenously visit popular websites like Facebook or
Youtube. One must more actively filter!

Thoughts about elections generally
----------------------------------

It is amateur political philosopher hour! Today's topic is *why I
don't like elections* as a way of governance.

Firstly, the machinations of elections rely on techniques like
**flattery** and **deception**. No matter who your preferred political
candidates are, you must recognize how large elections necessarily
involve lots of propagandizing to *get numbers*. Numbers are
important, so you have to appeal to the *lowest common denominator*.

Secondly, elections put pressure on people to *get involved in deciding
stuff for other people* that they may have no business deciding. I
know nothing about... water rights in Nevada. But some stuff I vote on
may have big implications for that? Someone with a career in political
things might urge me to "get educated" and be active learning about
this-and-that. But for people who are not professional political
analysts, this is really not feasible. At best, you can find someone
you like and trust with good character who follows politics and follow
their voting patterns. Regardless, nobody pays you to do this!

Thirdly, elections are a huge waste of time, energy, and resources.
Insofar as US dollars actually are money in the sense that they
represent value/work done, elections and their side effects are
costly. These costs are recurrent costs as elections happen in cycles.

Finally, there is the question of *how well elections actually do at
representing what people want*. If most people want a justice in the
sense that crime is punished, a government that is not too intrusive
such that basic civil liberties are preserved, and reasonable taxes to
do stuff like maintain roads and provide utilities... do we really
need *elections?*

Conclusions
-----------

It is common in the West for people to defend their current forms of
government as favorable because they are "the best thing we've got,
though all systems are imperfect". I think there is a strong bias here
mainly stemming from,

- The current system is familiar and so relatively comfortable
- Assuming that technology, associated with post-Enlightenment
  thinking and models of government, has improved quality of life and
  that it would be impossible to have this without
  republics/democracies, and
- Enlightenment carciatures of other forms of government as totally
  depraved/evil/terrible
  
Associated with the last point is the retort, "Oh so you would like to
live in Saudi Arabia?" without consideration of hwo
democracies/republics have been instrumental in propping up many of
the "third world dictators" we villianize today.
