title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 97
date: 2021-02-08
category: News

Today's post treats **STEM**&mdash;Science Technology Engineering
Math&mdash;and how an emphasis on training people in these areas fits
into a broader narrative of *what* society is and how individuals
*should* fit into it.

You may have heard some quote about "technology being
indistinguishable from magic" or something similar. Indeed this is
often the case, as I will lay out in this article&mdash;the complexity
of modern technology often requires people to be highly specialized,
and thus put in containers/modules/departments in which they have
relatively narrow knowledge of how *the system* as a whole operates.[^1]


The good and practical
----------------------

Clearly, there are many things you can learn from studying STEM. In
terms of "soft skills", the STEM fields have objective criteria by
which to evaluate students. It is not a clear-cut question which of
two essays is better, however a definite winner can be declared
between which of two student performed some large number of
calculations correctly.

Studying STEM fields trains students to be careful and to recognize
when they make errors. It can also teach teamwork, as working on
complex projects with teams will require breaking up tasks, some
people taking up leadership roles, and so on and so forth. In
contrast, students in fields like the humanities may find that their
in-depth studying and hard hours of work are often spent
alone&mdash;for some students this can lead to agnonizing self-doubt
("imposter syndrome") while for others, unwarranted self-confidence
can produce more confusion rather than clarity in the academic space.

You can look field by field, but generally speaking you will find many
viable, well-compensated career paths in STEM.

The stereotypes about immmigrant parents wanting their children to go
into STEM mainly&mdash;I think&mdash;have to deal with this idea of
good economic opportunity. That is why, if you instead landed a job as
a lawyer or a highly paid real estate agent or so on and so forth,
this would be OK in the eyes of most "practical" people. You probably
wouldn't be accused of abandoning the noble pursuit of truth and
giving up on engineering utopia. Rather, you would be recognized for
having chosen another path that pays the bills and is respectable in
society.


"Science", "Technology", "Engineering", and "Math" are Different
----------------------------------------------------------------

Here's some broad definitions,

- **Science**: using testing to improve methods of doing things 
- **Technology**: using tools
- **Engineering**: building stuff
- **Math**: shuffling symbols


### Science

To talk about "science", you will need to understand the model(s) you
are working with. Someone could work in a lab, take measurements,
dispose of toxic chemicals, and so on *without understanding why they
are doing what they are doing* (at least from a *scientific*
perspective; that person probably knows they want to keep their job
and get paid).

The term **"science"** is used in many ways. One common way it is used
is "the consensus view of (expert) scientists". So a person that is
called a "science denier" is one who rejects a main stream view which
is predicated as being a "scientific fact".

Philosophically, the above views are quite... uninformed. Statistical
methods (which are used in all sorts of science) offer a practical
solution to *the problem of induction*&mdash;how do we move from
particular observations to generalized patterns? Statistical methods
allow us to make sense of many measurements, manage the "noise" of
accident/variation, and then use that information to refine models
about how stuff works.

Lots of the *math* of the Science of STEM has to deal with creating
well-defined (mathematical) models of stuff. For instance, if you're
predicting some fruit fly population will grow *exponentially* you
will need to have a mathematical model to describe how some
*independent variables* you control (like number of flies you are
starting with, how much of some sugar solution you're feeding them
with) corresponds with some *dependent variables*, probably the
population of flies, but you might also study other things like *rate
of mutation* by counting flies born with 4 eyes or something.

Note that for science to "work" you just have to do the scientific
paperwork, propose more experiments, and so on. Science doesn't have
to produce *results* beyond some *information*, e.g. that X works
better than Y to get Z result.

### Engineering

Let's contrast the above thing with **engineering**, which I called
"building stuff". [^2] Engineering might use many models developed by
scientists. Engineers apply models to solve "real-world problems". So
in addition to having engineers build things like rockets, we can also
have "engineers" building other types of systems. The two areas I have
looked most at are *productivity/workflow* and *software engineering*
(and also the intersection of those two areas).

One thing I realized being in the social sciences is that lots of the
engineering that is done is for the purpose of **social
engineering**&mdash;that is, designing how society at large should
run. Let's give some examples:

- Education: figure out how to get students to assimilate bodies of
  knowledge, develop certain attitudes towards institutions/authority
- Personality tests: quantify traits to optimize things like "career fit"
- Linguistics: measure and correlate aspects of speech with societally
  relevant categories&mdash;race/ethnicity, gender, class, etc [^3]
- Software engineering: creating the systems/channels by which people
  communicate, shop, submit homework assignments, etc.

Note that engineering requires you have the *infrastucture* in place
to implement some system. You can't do much with software engineering
to a place that isn't already all hooked up to computers. In today's
world, where everything from banking to grocery deliveries gets routed
through digital channels, software engineering controls powerful
systems indeed. Studying "education" as a type of engineering requires
that you have the schools/system set up in order to dispatch the
products created by scientific teams (who look at stuff like
standardized tests). Without a homogenous/controlled setting, the
*science* that feeds the engineering can't be done.

### Technology

Is becoming a plumber pursuing a STEM career? I would say *yes* in the
sense that a plumber deals with plumbing technology; they maintain
systems that require specialized training to work on. Simialrly, in my
work as a web programmer, I've described myself as an "**internet
plumber**". I work with the (data) pipes of the Internet, usually
working on making pretty sinks (front-end, web design) which can
interface with existing services (pipes, sewage system).

The tech industries of 20 or so years ago might have been dealing with
big UNIX mainframe things, writing `bash` scripts, and so on and so
forth (nerd talk). Nowadays, lots of tech work takes new
names&mdash;such as **DevOps**.

What brings all "technology" work together is that you are *using*
previously engineered things (which may be informed by *scientific*
studies).

### Math

Math is shuffling symbols according to rules. You can know what is
"right" and "wrong" in math because you're dealing with abstractions.

What isn't STEM
---------------

As discussed above, lots of STEM has to deal with designing,
manufuacturing, and using technology. Obviously, there's a lot of
interest and money (no pun intended, har har) behind this
stuff&mdash;as a society, we're constantly pushing towards a more
"technological" society. You can see this in all sectors of industry,
from agriculture/farming to healthcare to education. Much of it is
centered around *technology*.

So, what is *not* STEM? One way I think about this is... disregard or
indifference to technology. You can use whatever technology is
available to you as it is useful, but your activities need not be
driven by technologies.

Consider,

- A restaurant that uses traditional methods of preparation
- A teacher that likes to use the blackboard, memorization techniques,
  and other "low-tech" solutions
- Organic farming 
- Trader/merchant&mdash;will use stuff like stock exchanges, but would
  just as easily trade at the Bazaar in another time and placd
- Going for a walk/run, lifting heavy objects, doing
  calisthenics&mdash;doesn't need the latest fancy "exercise science";
  sweat and discipline are the essential ingredients

Note that the above approaches are not "un-scientific" in the sense
that you can certainly test stuff, learn from data, and so on and so
forth *and also choose to go with an older, time-tested way of doing
things*.

Conclusions
-----------

Pushing STEM sounds good in the sense that we want people to be able
to live lives where they can work hard, increase in understanding and 
learn to better serve one another with whatever tools are available.
For this reason, it is a pretty politically correct thing to promote
STEM broadly and ideas like "teaching kids JavaScript" sound appealing
to many.

Stepping back though, we can see how the promotion of STEM is
predicated on a kind of technophilic worldview&mdash;a society that is
built around the continued development of technology and pushing these
things into all aspects of life.

Just as talk about "globalization" has been presented as a kind of
inevitable thing that will just happen to us, we hear similar talk
about how we're just going to *have to deal with robots and
Aritificial Intelligence replacing humans*. Why is this?

As discussed in this article, it all falls under the ideology of lots
of STEM-think&mdash;designing systems that are engineered to be
fault-proof (by getting rid of the pesky human element) [^4] The
prevailing narrative is that using technology, we've created a
healthier society, where we have better control of disease and famine,
and where equality/human rights are better than ever.

You can go for a walk outside and let me know if you think that is the
case.


[^1]: That is, you can be doing specific tasks&mdash;like writing
    programs&mdash;while being completely unaware with where the
    funding comes from such that you can write those programs, to what
    purposes your programs will be used, and so on
[^2]: I first thought a lot about this contrast between *science* and
    *engineering* when I read Elon Musk's biography by Ashley Vance; a
    kinda modern "classic" like that thick tome on Steve Jobs
[^3]: This is "**sociolinguistics**", but other subfields of
    linguistics are put to the same purposes. For example, an
    ethnographic study may be sponsored by a group that wants to
    introduce a particular type of education to a relatively isolated
    people group
[^4]: You can't give a vending machine a complicated custom order; by
    designing systems that limit choices you can engineer away
    "inefficiency" through constraint
