title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 2
date: 2020-03-22
category: News

Reporting again from self-quarantine, your independent media ðŸ‘‹ Today
we are going to do some more armchair sociology and
psychologizing. Buckle up ("Click it or Ticket") and grab your
favorite face cover, things are about to get sneezy. Might even add
some abstractions and philosophy to the mix...


First things first, let's define a term: **belief**.

Regarding "Belief"
------------------

In English, we have this word "believe" which is quite peculiar. It
has *strong religious connotations*. Many would say the question of
whether or not someone is a Christian ultimately comes down to a
question of *belief*. But what exactly does it mean to "believe"?

One way to look at "belief" is to see it as a *publicly alignment* to
some cause. That is, one goes out in public and makes some
assertion. They are bound to their word.  This way of looking at
belief makes a lot of sense because it has to deal with contracts and
stuff, which America has a lot of maybe mostly owing to British
origins.

Another way to look at "belief" is to evaluate *what people do* rather
than *what people say*. Truly, if you believed your house was fire,
you would do something about it, wouldn't you? By this definition of
belief, we have to prove that we believe something by how we act. From
certain stated axioms, do your actions (rationally) follow? If not,
our actions reveal what we
[actually](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/ackchyually) believe.


Now given two senses of the word "belief", I will proceed to
characterize the crises of belief currently befalling many of the
people of planet earth.

State of Disbelief
------------------

In both of the senses of the word "belief" above, we see that we are
collectively in a **state of disbelief**. You probably can see the pun
I am making with the word "state" too ðŸ˜‰

On the one hand, we see people making all sorts of assertions about
the state of the world, what's going on. Then we look at what people
are doing.

One person might be able to perfectly recite some **ideology**, giving
the "right answers" by basic logic + mental algebra. But when that
ideology doesn't line up with reality, we see what that person really
*believes* in the second sense I gave above&mdash;their actions
manifest where their real convictions lie.

Such behavior is sometimes can be called "hypocrisy", but I often see
it as more of a struggle to reconcile a collapsing world view. Maybe
"managing cognitive dissonance" or something like that for many
people.

### Theory Shmeary!

As everyone and their favorite non-profit is trying to push some
ideology, it is not surprising that people often hold many incoherent
"beliefs" when taken together as declarations of belief. One might at
one time utter the words,

- Open borders! No kids in cages!
- Closed borders! Keep everyone safe, Drumpf is an overconfident idiot!
- Free market! We need everyone to have goods/services no matter the cost!
- Government rationing of supplies! Planned economy!

...and this is because these statements are taken from disjoint
self-contained systems (though not necessarily so). One person can say
them all; we are not computers that blow up if there is some "logical
contradiction".

My analysis is that these things people say belong to the first sense
of *belief*&mdash;publically making known one's adherence to some
words. One might analyze this as a sort of [speect
act](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speech_act).

### Globalists x NeoLiberals

One class of people I see getting hit hard are the relatively
**xenophilic** ("foreign-stuff loving") types. These folks often like
to celebrate how people/places/cultures that are not them are
great. Imagine learning some foreign language of a people/culture you
do not belong to (oh no, I see my reflection).

I see many of these folks turning inward, displaying their true
colors. It is not about diversity and decentralization of power
(e.g. competing US, European Union, Chinese, Russian, Pan-Indic,
Islamic forces vying for power...), it is about issuing in a
"democratic world order" in which the world is a zoo of cultures to
visit with a German (not to be confused with *Nazi*, mind you)
passport.

What they announce is that they embrace diversity, respect other
cultures, etc. What their actions show they *believe* is that they
have all the right answers and that these things should be exported at
the point of a gun to the rest of the world.

In other words, the astute can see through the ideological **virtue
signalling** of people saying how tolerant, diversity embracing, blah
blah they are. Such behavior made sense to climb up corporate ladders
and stuff in the pre-COVID-19 world. But when institutions shut down
and do not intervene between reality, shit hits the fan with *no
intervening toilet paper*. The horror!

### Traditionalists vs Revolutionaries

Some people really like ritual, and just do stuff just because. I'll
call them **traditionalists**. They may tell you that they don't need
a reason for doing what they are doing, they just do.  Insofar as
these people are able to keep up their traditions, they seem pretty
chill through all this quarantine business.

The traditionalist doesn't need to explain at every step. They act in
a way that has led to survival in the past. The traditionalist
*believes* tradition will allow them to weather this storm.

Let is call the opposite of traditionalist a
**revolutionary**. Revolutionaries want to overturn tradition and
forge a new path forward.

Ironically, being a "revolutionary" in a left-wingy sense has become
quite... mainstream. So we see lots of self-proclaimed left wingers
doing things like voting for Joe Biden. Voting to *conserve the
establishment*. Lol.

In this way, the idea of the "[silent
majority](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silent_majority)" makes sense
to me. We see people who make the gestures of "revolutionaries" at
times, campaigning for social justice and all. But in the end, they
are establishment mongers.

That's OK in my book; you don't choose everything about who you are,
including dispositions towards certain behvaiors. I hope your
"revolutionary" comrades do treat you alright though if you fall into
this category.


So... what's your point?
------------------------

In summary, we see many mismatches between word and deed all around us
everyday. In a time of crisis, like with impending
[Corona*-chan*](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/corona-chan), it is
evermore easy to see the "raw belief" of action.

I do not condemn widespread hypocrisy around me. Rather I observe a
struggle to resolve ideologies&mdash;often fragmented and incomplete,
consisting of collected sayings (c.f. Confucian *Analects*). People
are being tested for what they *actually* believe in the sense that
they are being forced into action. Certain actions reveal a mismatch
between proclaimed ideology and assessment of reality.

Personally, I think it is important to not get too fixated on witch
hunting based on proclaimed ideology because many people around the
world just proclaim what they do to stay alive. Much of China says
"yes communism!" because they didn't want to die; now they are acting
in a very much "yes fascism!" way in the sense that we see a marriage
of government and industry... PUNCH ALL CHINESE BECAUSE THEY ARE
FACISTS?

*Bruh.*

Other languages aside
---------------------

Other languages have lots of words (and even grammatical structure) to
discuss all things **epistemological** (having to do with what
*knowledge* and what is *knowable*, see
[SPE](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/epistemology/) for more
info).

Spanish has a word *confiar* which might sometimes be used in contexts
similar to "believe". But this word is also often translated as things
like "trust" (as in *__trust__ in the process*).

The East Asian languages have translations from missionaries of words
in the Bible dealing with belief. 
