title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 60
date: 2020-10-06
category: News

Thus far, I've categorized these blog posts as "news"&mdash;initially
I was doing more talk about politics this and that and stuff going on
in the (USA/national) news. Then, this blog has turned to more
narration and reflection mixed in with notes on stuff I've been trying
and learning. This blog has thus become a kind of diary/log (as the
title suggests) of my experience since around half a year ago when
"the normal routine" was shut down across the world, probably
beginning somewhere around Wuhan China. [^0]

I haven't written for some time&mdash;I don't want to write to just
contribute some *noise* to the world. As evidenced by the fact that
I'm not using Medium[^1] or some other more easily "social" blog/article
writing place you can see that the aim of this blog isn't to be
*popular*.

What I hope this blog to be is **edifying**. For me, it is a useful
tool to gather and present my thoughts on the things that are going on
around me and *keep me accountable for the choices I make to write my
life story*. So, this blog is a kind of system of **accountability**
for me. Am I causing needless trouble? Engaging in idle or vain talk?
The goal is that the answer to these questions is *"no!"*

I encourage you to *stop* reading this and do what you need to do if
you aren't finding the words written here useful to you. My goal is to
*not waste your time* but to help you use it better, sharing my
experiences so you can avoid mistakes I've made.

## Grammar, Memory, Work

I've been starting to do in-depth study of a few European languages.
Firstly, I'm studying Russian now, which involves learning a lot of
new grammar (e.g. memorizing noun declensions) and unfamiliar
vocabulary. I've learned the basic pronunciation of (modern) Greek to
be able to say and remember Greek words as I encounter them and I've
started to learn Latin as a way to understand the **language arts**
more broadly. [^2]

I think that language study broadly fits under the category of
"wholesome activities"&mdash;activities that are good (or at least not
harmful) to the soul. So while not working on something I have to take
care of (e.g. day job to make enough money to live off of, logistics),
I'm trying to make good use of my time.

My [Language and
Linguistics](https://captainalan.github.io/language-and-linguistics/index.html)
website continues to be slowly built up.

[^0]: That is, the Coronavirus thing now called COVID-19
[^1]: A website especially popular among tech industry people
[^2]: The study of Latin has a long history and knowing Latin
    grammar/vocabulary opens up more doors to learn classic rhetoric,
    poetry, and more.
