title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 72
date: 2020-11-13
category: News

From our own experience, we can *give testimony* to what we have seen,
heard, smelled, tasted, and felt. For things we do not experience
direclty, we are relaying the messages of others. People who knowingly
distort truth&mdash;e.g. to conform to some narrative they are paid to
tell&mdash;we call **liars**. 

Nowadays, there is pressure in many directions for people to
relay/repost messages from all sorts of *parties*. They are asked to
repeat slogans, to dnounce this-or-that. Many people will repeat nice
sounding words out of courtesy to the person asking or simply because
they don't want to imply they are disagreeing with some sentiment by
refusing to do so.

The current "virtual" climate brought upon us by top-down policies in
response to a reported viral threat is one in which we are often
called upon to reaffirm our *belief* in a particular narrative.

Personally, I have no first-hand accounts to relay about the severity
of this virus stuff. I can see the policies enacted around me and the
damage they have caused, but I cannot say how the often spoken of
biological threat has(n't) threatened me. I obey rules to fulfill a
duty to obey civil authorities so long as they are not asking me to do
anything morally compromising.

As we are seeing organizations deciding what is going to happen in the
upcoming year, what is there to expect? It seems to be... more closing
down of small to medium sized businesses while the large corporations
and government-associated businesses continue operations in accordance
with all the rules.

Since things like money (USD), communications, and increasingly
*transporation* is so centralized, people are being increasingly
disenfranchised from means to assert their autonomy with respect to
basic things like: which people they meet, where they go, and who they
pay.
