title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 27
date: 2020-06-02
category: News

On my morning walk I see the replacing of "WEAR A MASK" signs/banners
with new content. Narratives are swapped like pairs of sneakers.

Talk of "COVID-19" is rapidly replaced by other impending
matters&mdash;in Sacramento, California with looting and rioting
nearby by suburb (though relatively peaceful, compared with other
cities) the new reason to stay inside is because of "curfew" rather
than airborn viruses.

Recently, I got a letter in the mail from the IRS. This letter turned
out to be announcing the $1200 relief/aid money that came a couple
weeks earlier. A little white collar scare for me&mdash;glad there was
no issue to deal with&mdash;I paid muh taxes and stuff...

Permission to Live
------------------

Many peaceful channels by which people might normally deal with
frustration/anger are unavailable (if you would like to follow the
law, at least). Having friends over for dinner, taking a [night
walk](https://knowyourmeme.com/photos/1412317-doomer), and anonymously
loitering at a coffee shop are all off limits. [^1]

In place of everyday activities that help us learn about and connect
with the people around us, we have doom-and-gloom news piped directly
from to smartphone and brain&mdash;

And now, there are **shibboleths** being used left-and-right to sort
out in-group loyalties. [^2]

Urged to "speak out", many people feel compelled to announce stances
on issues&mdash;to say nothing is to be complicit in the badness?

I still have no idea what is going on in Syria, or Ukraine, or
Jamaica, or tons and tons of other places in the world. These places
are foreign to me; they are not in my backyard. Are there systemic
injustices in these places? Probably, I assume. Perhaps they have
political opinions about Asian-Americans living in Sacramento, CA.

Good Guys/Bad Guys
------------------

In the United States, angst, anger, sadness, and frustration is
everywhere (particularly concentrated in urban areas where people are
exposed to more news and smartphones). Agitated cries for *change*
erupt&mdash;what exactly should be done? A proletariat uprising?

On this matter, America is far from united; things are getting
*political* in the sense that force is being used in many directions.


[^1]: Some activities I might like to do these days...
[^2]: a custom or usage regarded as distinguishing one group from
    others
    ([Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/shibboleth))

