title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 1
date: 2020-03-20
category: News

In contemporary times, Japanese people are famous being good at
waiting in lines and otherwise maximizing social cohesion. So when I
heard that [Japan was running out of toilet
paper](https://twitter.com/5huKA_11/status/1237687423687155713) and
that there were issues with people hoarding and buying out stores, I
knew that there was going to be trouble. Although my inner-prepper had
already led me to prep with things like things canned foods,
fire-starting devices, and knives (for cooking and chopping up
plants), it became clear to me that preparing more couldn't hurt. So
while stuff was still in stock, I went out and bought some more
essentials. At this point in the virus explosion timeline, everything
in the US was running as usual. COVID-19 (then sometimes called "Wuhan
Virus") *was* in the mainstream news, but businesses were still open
and running as usual. I think the stock market took some little dips,
but nothing major.

Zoom ahead a few weeks, and we see major market crashing action, Joe
Biden leading the Democrats, and some areas of the world (e.g. Italy)
hit very hard. Optimists say to expect maybe three more weeks of this,
but the inner [**Doomer**](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/doomer)
within each of us knows to expect more chaos for longer than that.

I had not too long ago finished filing taxes, so I didn't go sell off
all my stocks. I didn't wanna think about markets, government
intervention, and everything in between. Then the Federal Reserve
money printers started whirring. *brrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr...*


Invisible Enemies 
-----------------

Following the news through all of this has been a bullshit filtering
exercise of great proportion. The scientifically minded are a bit more
comfortable with just *how little we know*, but this is not the case
for the public at large. People turn every which way for
*authority*. Some turn to popular personalities, others to
governments, and yet others to corporate e-mail announcements.

There is one common thread that I see running through all these
reactions.  In the words of President Donald Trump, we're fighting an
**"invisible enemy"**. Each person has constructed a different "invisible
enemy", though none can deny the chaos befalling our dear globalist
order.

### Containment Measures

Okay, so you like... can't see a virus with the naked eye. So in a
very literal sense, we are fighting an "invisible enemy" since we
can't see viruses. I hope you are doing your part to not be part of
the problem.

This "invisible enemy" does not immediately manifest itself. Even
breathing the same air as a healthy looking person can potentially
mean infection. The orders to practice **"social distancing"** thus
urge people to not just avoid overtly coughting and weezing humans
around them, but to generally avoid breathing the same air as others
since we *don't know who may be infected*. This is how we try to
contain the spread of COVID-19.

As a mostly-remote web developer, practicing "social distancing"
hasn't been much of a change for me in terms of day-to-day
lifestyle. However, as businesses continue closing their doors and
governments have begun issuing "shelter in place" orders, even my
already rather isolated remote life is being affected.

I do not yet know anyone personally who is infected with the virus,
though I expect I probably will in the near future. I plan to consider
taking quarantine stuff seriously. In terms of *positive* goals (as
opposed to *negative* goals like avoiding sickness and death) I intend
to do more pushups, squats, and crunches on the dungeon floor as well
as skipping rope in the corner of my yard. Current hobbies continue to
be studying foreign languages, doing computer nerd stuff, and
occasionally trying to make pleasant sounds on musical instruments.

The best thing for young-ish healthy people to do, I think, is to
*respect the enemy (virus)* and to not "YOLO, whatever I'm traveling
to Italy!". This is mainly out of concern for others, though it may
very likely be a life-saving alignment for oneself. Those who have the
power to not end up in the hospital should choose to not end up in the
hospital so that those that need help can get it. Plus, it is no fun
to go to the hospital, but I didn't have to tell you that probably.

### Fanning the flames of ethnic tensions

The mainstream media's response to COVID-19 has also done much to fan
the flames of existing tensions. I see my ethnic demographic
(**Asian-Americans**) getting worked up against (white) people who do
not xenophilically embrace them. Certainly, hostilities exist between
different people groups. Just listen to a second-generation
Chinese-American immigrant mother describe how dirty white people are
for leaving their shoes on in homes...

Yet we (Asian-Americans) are programmed to see micro-aggression in any
vanilla colored smile.

As COVID-19 rages, we see individuals *returning to ethnic enclaves*
(oftentimes families where near everyone is of the same ethnicity). I
don't think this is necessarily a bad thing. But it is worth pointing
out that in times of trial people tend to reveal where their loyalties
really lie. Narratives of persecution *have not helped Americans
towards further solidarity with one another*. Rather, they have
encouraged people to dig deeper into their
Semitic/Chinese/Indian/etc. tribes.

I also see people withdrawing into philosophical/intellectual (rather
than ethnic) camps. Groups of people united by something like a common
profession (e.g. programers) or a shared ideology (e.g. "secular
humanists") band may be able to survive together, at least for one
generation. However I believe that in the long run, ethnic and/or
religious affiliations are a more robust strategy, because
[**neckbeards**](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=neckbeard)
cannot give birth to new generations with other neckbeards.

### Religion Rising

Facing institutional incomeptence, religion is looking healthier
overall from what I can see. People want to see other people and
communities. They would rather pray to God than see what demonic
bargons the governments of the world have to offer them next. The
promise of liberalism and globalism seems less appealing, even if the
Kingdom of Heaven cannot be known except through faith.


Online social lyfe
------------------

In these tough times, we must recognize our nature as a "social
species" (though I think individuals differ drastically on how much
social contact they want).

I'm around if you contact me on FB, LINE, Kakao, or whatever. 

For a more "public" like experience, I've been very impressed with
Discord. Come hang out with me and others on the [Xah Lee
Discord](https://discord.gg/2RFwR7R) server to meet interesting people
from all over the world and talk about anything under the sun.

Notes to self
-------------

There is a whole boatload (non-infected, I hope) of topics to discuss
relating to all this coronavirus stuff. Here I list some things I want
to discuss further in the future. Feel free to reach out and suggest
ideas if you would like to see a discussion on anything...

- *Antifragile* (N.N. Taleb) and why none of the "collapse" we are
  witnessing is surprising at all.
- Chinese media vs Western media on current events
- the Internet and signal vs noise; bullshit filtering
- about Internet communications, generally 
- my experience with remote work

...will make more blogs in the near future.
