title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 99
date: 2021-02-11
category: News

A common thing you'll hear from people who've "made it" is that *they
didn't teach XYZ in school*. For instance, who went to public school
to learn **personal finance**?

Indeed, there are a great many things you don't learn in school
because "good schools" typically prepare you to be a certain type of
person: employees or professionals. Many people have led lives
thinking very little about money&mdash;they get paid enough at work to
pay the bills, and so they pay the bills. And then, taxes, insurance,
and other potentially complicated things get handled automatically
through an employer.

The way a lot of money stuff works in the "free world" seems... rather
sinister. First off, there's the whole thing about *fiat* currency;
our US Dollars are based on what? They are debt, backed by the belief
that such-and-such will pay back such-and-such. And so more and more
tresury notes can be "printed" (or integers added to bank accounts) as
the powers at be see fit to stimulate the economy, boost certain
initiatives, and so and and so forth.

On the level of *personal finance*, **microeconomics** pretty much
makes sense in that you have some income (money goes in) and expenses
(money goes out). Provided your numbers are right, you can take out
loans to *get more money now* and agree to pay back money on some
schedule (e.g. mortgage payments). Likewise, you can get yourself into
a lot of trouble digging yourself into a debt hole that only some sort
of legal action (bankruptcy, gov't forgiving college loans, etc) can
free you from.

What's totally backwards is that the things that might count as
sensible for what *you* do might be the exact opposite of what the
really rich (and therefore powerful) people of this world do.

For instance, it is a pretty safe idea to *not spend money you don't
have* via avoiding debts for most people, most of the time. Exceptions
can be made for some stuff like taking out a mortgage with a low
interest rate to start a family home if you don't have tons of cash to
hand over immediately.

Yet the operating principle of our currency is doing lots of
borrowing&mdash;the US Dollar isn't tied to economic activity (look at
how much stuff has slowed down this past year, yet stock prices are
higher than ever). Our political leaders can choose to support and
fund ideas pretty much nobody would want to give any money to through
financial vehicles you and I do not have access to. Regardless of
whether or not you like how US Dollars work, you're compelled to pay
taxes in US Dollars. There is no "social contract"; you are coerced to
operate within a system that is not of your design and choosing.

Not doom-spiraling
------------------

The point of this post isn't to complain and "doom spiral", but rather
to highlight the fact that *one of the main metrics by which people
today measure success is a very broken measuring stick*.

A similar example would be *fame*. Do people become famous because
they are of good character and have lots of talent? Anyone who is
seriously into some skilled thing (such as guitar playing or oil
painting) will likely tell you that there are many famous things that
are *over-rated* while other lesser known things that are
*under-appreciated*. While there is a subjective aspect to this, it
goes without saying&mdash;being a "better" musician doesn't mean the
"free market" proportionally rewards you.

It would be wrong to base how we think we're doing on a broken
measuring stick like wealth; a person with a 1 million dollar "net
worth" isn't 10 times better than a person with an 100k "net worth".
Indeed, the personw ith an 100k net worth might be a contributing
member of society, providing valuable services while the person with 1
million dollars net worth might be sitting on their butt sipping
mojitos and getting cheeto crumbs on your couch.

Leftoids correctly give critiques of how big bad billionaires get into
power through capitalism first, and then monopolizing stuff and
putting anti-competitive laws into place.

But the Rightards also correctly point out how the problem isn't
*capitalism* itself (which I'll understand as "economic freedom").

Really, as a society, I think most people want the same thing&mdash;a
large degree of economic freedom without overly bigly doing wealth
inequality. Sure, we'll always have more rich and more poor people (we
*need* these differences so richer people can be charitable, so we can
organize labor, etc). But this isn't so much of a problem if even
working class people can have a reasonable standard of living (and not
be enslaved by debt).

Off-the-spectrum thinking
-------------------------

The stuff above isn't to say "we should do something *in the middle*
of what Republicans and Democrats" say. Ha! Surely you don't think
Democrats represent "the left" and Republicans represent "the right",
and you can just be a reasonable person and choose something "in
between"?

We're not measuring flour to bake cookies here.

A more useful approach, I think, is to look at what
**tools/instruments** (including financial ones) are available, and
how we should (not) allow these things to be used, if at all.

So, for instance, there's this thing called *credit*. Lots of people
would like to use it. What sort of uses are proper for it? Should you
be able to get some na√Øve person signed up on some horrible contract
that gets them enslaved for life? I would argue that our lawmakers
*should* protect people from stuff like this. You *can* buy a shovel,
but you will get in trouble if you hit someone on the head with a
shovel. This doesn't mean shovels are bad, that only specialists
should be allowed to use shovels, etc.

The whole "right" vs "left" dialectic is annoying because it gets
people to say, "you are either Karl Marx or Ayn Rand". Well, bucko,
did you know that a clever commie would say let the capitalists build
up stuff and then seize the means of production? To think in terms of
"left vs right" is to be an *early stage* or *late stage* utopian. And
that doesn't work.

What I think is more important to understand is to see what tools are
available to us and how to best use those&mdash;for each individual
this will be different. This *IS NOT* a nihilist perspective; it is
just to say that I don't think you can have a purely "secular" moral
system based on ideas like "muh free market" or even some hand-wavy,
vague notion like "human rights" which corresponds to what some club
of globalists find out makes you feel good from their decades of
research into social engineering.

