title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 63
date: 2020-10-26
category: News

What is **work**? I consider this as an important question to answer
in order to direct my activities *away from being lazy*.

To start, there is the most obvious sort of work&mdash;physical labor
to achieve some tangible end. For instance, you may have to move some
supplies up a mountain or dig a ditch to redirect some water.
Organizing your labor (e.g. using your hands, operating tools) to do
this is an important, universally recognized sort of work.

In the USA, in our present "digital age", many people don't do much of
this sort of work. Particularly if you're living in some urban
apartment, the closest thing you may do to approximate this sort of
job is cleaning your living space or cooking yourself a meal. So what
sort of work is there left for us to do?


Defining "work"
---------------

In any kind of work, there is some "default" state of things that you
have to exert attention and effort to change. Modern science jargon
might call this **entropy** which biological organisms fight against.
So in the manual labor examples given above, *by default* there is no
food/supplies at the top of a mountain&mdash;through working, we can
make some store of food/supplies at the top of a mountain where these
things would normally not be found. Similarly, normally, the flow of
water would not respect crops planted in some area. By doing work, we
redirect water from where it would go by default such that it flows
where we intend it to go.

Work means applying will, body, and intellect to change how things
are. 


Training as work
----------------

Sometimes, as given in the physical labor examples above, work is
enacting changes on the physical environment. But we probably wouldn't
want to say that "working out/exercising" isn't some kind of work
because activities like that are involving the *application of will,
body, and intellect to change how things are*. Rather than changing
how water flows in a field, other activities may change how *we are*
in form, skill, etc.

There is a kind of work that involves *learning how stuff is put
together*. How to build a bridge, how to analyze the grammar of a
language, how to operate some sort of machinery&mdash;these are things
that we don't know by *default*. It is only through the application of
will, body, and intellect. This may mean forcing ourselves to pay
attention and read some text even if we'd rather go take a nap or eat
a burger; the *work* is in choosing activity that goes against some
resting state.

Finding work to do
------------------

During all this COVID stuff, many but not all people have some kind of
job in the sense of *role you fulfill for money*. Not having some kind
of money-making occupation can be a point of great pain for many
people&mdash;when I transitioned to my current day job (web developer)
I endured a period of being NEET (Not Employed in Education or in
Training) for some months&mdash;at least on paper/institutionally. In
fact, I was never NEET for too long in the sense that while looking
for jobs and stuff I would work on training my nerd skills and stuff.
So I was "working" in the definition as presented here.

Each of us can look at ourselves and our present situations and ask,
"what is it that needs work?"

Sometimes it will be obvious what needs to be done&mdash;e.g. if your
room is really messy such that you can't find things you need, the
work you should probably do is cleaning your room. You will probably
know if you are neglecting to do some physical work on
yourself&mdash;e.g. there is some walking/running you ought to do.

In terms of *intellectual* work, we can take inventory of what we do
and what we don't know and fill in knowledge gaps as is appropriate.
For instance, writing English, I rarely if ever make reference to a
dictionary unless I'm doing something specific like citing the
etymology of a word. Not so with the languages I've studied as second
languages&mdash;I know that there is a lot of work for me to do to
make using these languages "comfortable" to use such that using them
ceases to be "work".

- Can you *memorize* information you usually look up (e.g. cooking
  recipes, some musical piece, a poem, prayers)
- Can you extemporaneously provide an explanation for something you
  are required to know (e.g. can you pass the "whiteboard interview")
- Can you write a book, create a website, or otherwise *better*
  organize information you know?
