title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 82
date: 2020-12-14
category: News

In this post I am going to summarize some useful ideas on
**training**. We train ourselves to be able to do things we wouldn't
be able to do without training&mdash;for example, you might physically
train for more strength or you might memorize some procedure to do
some work, or you might learn to recognize some kind of system of
patterns (as in programing, reading foreign languages).

Select a target
---------------

To train *something*, you need to know what that *something* is. If
your goals are not very well-defined (e.g. *I want to get better at
music*) your efforts may be in vain. It is better to have at least
*some* well defined goal, even if it doesn't have a definite
endpoint&mdash;for example, you might strive to do push-ups until the
point of exhaustion to build strength. What is essential is that you
know *what actions* you need to take in order to make progress.

One easy way to do this for work that involves *bodies of knowledge*
is to get a good, comprehensive book on a subject or alternatively
some book that is broken up into lessons arranged in some logical
order. Then, your work will be defined by working through the content
in that book.

For example, in learning to play a musical instrument, you can find
many "self-teaching" courses. Typically, these books will progress
through increasingly difficult exercises to build up skills step by
step. With diligently applied effort, you can be certain you will
build your skill. [^1]

Allocate time to make progress
------------------------------

Once you have selected some target, you need to consistently apply
effort towards achieving your goals. You should be prepared to work a
little bit each day at each thing you want to work at&mdash;expecting
to have very long time blocks of applied effort (e.g. 8 hour practice
sessions) is probably unfeasible, especially over sustained periods of
time. [^2]

Patience is key; do not become discouraged if you do not immediately
make fast progress. Instead, focuse on doing a good job on the little
bit you're concentrating on each practice session. Little by little
you will improve. If expert help is available, do seek out correction
to refine your movements. Always seek to refine your movements, but do
not get too caught up on every detail&mdash;for instance, if you are
learning a foreign language, your pronunciation may not be perfect at
first. This is okay; you can just concentrate on learning how to
pronounce words in a "good enough" way to be understood, learn how
these words are spelt, and then focus on improving your pronunciation
later.

"Use it or lose it"
-------------------

Do take time to review things you have learned by *using the things
you learned*. Some things, like memorizing texts, you will "use" by
reciting (whether aloud or in your mind); at a moment when you might
check your phone or watch television, you can instead choose to take
the couple minutes or however long it takes to recite some text to
concentrate and actively recall what you've learned. If this is very
difficult and you mess up, you know where to review and how to train
to not fail next time. If it is very easy, you already have your
reward!

For systematic bodies of knowledge such as *how to play an instrument*
or *how to speak a language*, you may have use your knowledge by
exposing yourself to new texts, memorizing things using that system,
or doing work using that system.

Pitfalls
--------

You do not want to choose something *too difficult* for a target. For
example, rather than trying to memorize an entire very long text at
once, you can work on a text line by line. Some texts, like Scripture
(Biblical) is numbered in a consistent way.

To build proficiency in a skill, a mistake I've often made is to *fail
to select a new target*. I haven't improved musically recently because
I'm not really working on learning to play any pieces. On some
languages, I'm not doing very much either. The way to start improving
at these activities again is to start working on some
target&mdash;even if it is only for five minutes a day&mdash;which
will require the *work* of selecting new targets.

Which leads us to the issue of *organization*. Rather than being an
issue of "lack of talent", lots of skill training has to do with
simply being organized and disciplined. If you can be organized and
disciplined, you can then acquire skills which will allow you to
experience more interesting things&mdash;such as freedom of
expression. Freedom of expression only comes after lots of hard work,
however. Prematurely trying to "do your own thing" can lead you to
stagnate and harden bad habits instead of improving.

Therefore, little emphasis should be placed on *creativity*. It is
better to learn how to do things properly. Then, as each individual is
unique, your individuality will naturally be reflected in your craft.


[^1]: You may have to refer to videos, ask questions to people, etc to
    clarify the content of a book&mdash;what is most important here is
    that you have some *target* to work towards.
[^2]: Maybe some people do this sometimees, e.g. working on a computer
    for 8 hours everyday to master some software; usually, I don't
    think this is preferable. Over-work can lead to injury, burnout,
    etc.
