title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 79
date: 2020-12-06
category: News

Lots of this lock-down business comes down to telling other people
what to do. Rather than operating on a principle of *personal
responsibility* whereby we care for ourselves (and maybe family), we
are now being pushed into a system wherein every other person is
considered a potential threat. The default state is to be fearful and
the way in which we get our top-down orders is primarily through the
Internet&mdash;whether through videos, news sites, etc. Big tech has
taken up the role of "fact checker" and many people actively welcome
this development.

There is still much each of us is in control over. While many aspects
of our lives have been affected&mdash;e.g. the places and mode in
which we can interact with other people&mdash;we still exercise autonomy
over our will. For instance, we can make choices in how we direct our
*attention*. Do we spend hours getting worked up emotionally? Do we
choose to apply ourselves to learn new skills or do skillful work? Do
we exercise patience with those around us?

Worldview and Language Reflection
---------------------------------

While studying primarily Japanese, Chinese, and Korean, I remember
being somewhat bothered by the fact that for most of the *practical*
things I might be trying to accomplish (e.g. using some software to do
some work), the *best resources were always in English*. Indeed, much
of the Internet has been built in the USA, and developers will by
default turn to English to write documentation, answer questions on
forums, and so forth. Serious programers all around the world use
English primarily in their work.

And so I came to the false premise that English was the most useful
language ever. In certain domains this is true, but there is a suble
assumption underlying this. Namely, there is the assumption of
**progress** of some kind. In the current age, English occupies a very
big role, and lots of info about things of *now* are in English.

Visiting East Asia, I noticed that in any of the three East Asian
languages mentioned here, there were many more resources for learning
other Asian languages&mdash;this includes languages like Vietnamese,
Thai, etc. So I found one domain besides Chinese History or something
very specific where East Asian languages appeared to be much more
useful than English.

A year or so later, learning a bit more about how the Ango-American
establishment works, it became evident to me that English is only the
best language for *certain types of stuff*, i.e. *knowing the
worldview of the Anglo-American establishment*. [^1] Indeed, you can read
lots of scholarship on say... China... *in English*. Likewise, on
YouTube, you can watch many videos of people speaking Chinese. What
you have here is a very biased sample of Chinese. Of course you can
learn a lot about China in this way, but it will be from a particular
perspective. You are learning *what feds want you to think about
China* and seeing some "neutral" cultural stuff (e.g. cooking) mixed
in there.

Now, you *could* use Chinese to discuss about all sorts of things that
are considered politically incorrect in English. Of course, you don't
want to go around in China and discuss certain political
topics&mdash;we all know what some of these are. But it is simply
na√Øve thinking to presume America/Western Europe isn't full of taboos.

### Domains where English is not dominant

To find domains where English is not dominant, you need to ask *what
sorts of things do Americans/Anglos NOT know about*. The histories of
countries around the world and the day-to-day lives of non-Coca Cola
sipping people is one place to start. Ask a question like, "what was
life like in Byzantium?" and you may find that there is better
scholarship in Russian, or German, or French, or some other language.
To learn about the Roman Catholic church, you're probably going to
read some Latin and Italian.

### Conclusions and future directions

Previously, I had studied Japanese/Chinese/Korean just because I'm of
Asian (Chinese) ancestry and there were lots of people around me of
similar origin (Asian Americans). At university I had the opportunity
to meet a lot of Asian people. So studying these languages was useful
for better understanding East Asia and its diaspora in the West.

Studying history, I learned that the East Asian languages as we know
them are relatively new&mdash; standardized languages created around
the early 20th century. The United Nations can translate their
materials into a whole bunch of languages because these languages were
made such taht they could convey UN messages. Modern concepts won't
readily translate into ancient languages, just as translating from an
ancient language isn't a simple plug-and-play exercise as translating
modern texts can be.

Compared with the East Asian languages, the European languages have
longer histories of standardized usage. Particularly in the case of
Latin and Greek, you can go really far back. Languages like Russian
and Slavonic are not as easy to penetrate for the Anglophone, but
these are languages I will keep on studying for their relevancy to
Eastern Orthodoxy.

[^1]: Learning the above point involved becoming "blackpilled" on the
    political nature of universities (which are *not* just general
    centers of knowledge and free inquiry).
