title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 61
date: 2020-10-23
category: News

**Idle talk** is to be avoided; **deceptive talk** (lying) is
prohibited. Having been writing blogs of rather informal character for
a while, it would not be challenging for me to just "post something"
everyday&mdash;to practice of "producing content" for the sake of
content amounts to deciding on some schedule. Then, from that
schedule, there are endless things to talk about, particularly if you
are topically driven.

Let me give an example&mdash;suppose I started to write frequently on
the topic of Spanish (or some other foreign language). I could
document interesting new words I come across and provide short
summaries of more extensive research I do into etymologies and all
that.

This sort of blog is a kind of technical *log* (`blog = web + log`)
and diary combination. It is a diary because it is written
*diariamente*. [^1] The driver for the content of this type of diary
is some **work** outside the log itself (e.g. typesetting some book,
learning about some topic in order to do something). Words follow to
be a useful reference of some time whether that is to review later to
observe how progress has or has not been made or to refer to useful
documented information&mdash;I might reproduce a tasty recipe in a
blog, for instance.

Through an activity driven blog, you can make explicit *what* you do
and (optionally) publish it for others to see if they so choose.

Such a blog isn't just a collection of info, but provides
documentation of a journey. For example, in my experience learning
languages, I've found out lots of stuff that *didn't work*. I've spent
time doing silly things like *learning alternative keyboard layouts*.
A log of such foolishness can potentially be helpful for someone who
seeks to follow a similar path&mdash;I'm not trying to sell you
products or anything and I don't claim "originality" to these ideas.

A technical blog on programing, wood working, etc. can similarly be
informative. Actively working through problems and then posting
insights into what sorts of design patterns have(n't) worked, whether
the "next big thing" is just an old idea re-hashed, info on
tools/hardware... ...all this sort of information can be useful to
have and if you are looking at it anyways, I think writing a blog can
be a good way to serve others by providing non-nonsense takes on
things. However, it is *essential that you work* and not just write
about stuff, because tools are tools and knowing the effectiveness of
tools means you have to use them to do work.

## Regarding Political Content

What is the *work* that goes into a political blog? To *aggregate* and
*analyze* lots of information is an involved thing&mdash;to do this
well, you can't just take news sites' word on "face value". You must
famliarize yourself with the actors/parties involved, who is paying
who, and so on and so forth. One might say, you have to become a
"**conspiracy theorist**".

To think that most of news media is just a personal, technical log of
events like the kind of (work) blogs I describe above is
naivety&mdash;one musn't be lazy/idle!

{^1]: Spanish for "daily"
