title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 85
date: 2020-12-17
category: News

What follows are some practical notes to myself; they may be useful to
you too.

"Multi-tasking" isn't so much of an issue as failing to *integrate* a
multiple activities working towards a common goal. When doing any
complex activity&mdash;take *driving a car* as an example&mdash;you
must take charge of many controls. There's the gas and brake pedals,
steering, checking the mirrors, and so on. So in a way, driving a car
is "multi-tasking". For a skilled driver, it doesn't feel this way and
indeed many actions happen automatically without conscious thought.
Why is this? It is from having practiced a number of procedures and
being able to seamlessly move from task to task *without even
enumerating those tasks*.

To continue on this driving analogy, we can consider things that can
distract and endanger drivers. A ringing cell phone, a pet blocking
the driver's view, a blinking indicator light... There are many things
that can make a driver perform worse than they can.

In our "work weeks", we can likewise look for things that prevent us
from "driving along" in an integrated way. With a car, you'll want to
check your parking brake when you start driving. But having checked
it, and started driving, this thing should be out of mind and out of
sight. Similarly with our workdays, there can be things that are
potentially very distracting&mdash;consider some site or communication
platform that you check. Without giving yourself guidelines about how
often you do(n't) check things like email (or in 2020: Slack, Discord,
etc) you can easily find yourself sinking a lot of time into
*checking* or mindlessly browsing and not getting much done at all.

YouTube and other sites that give notifications can present similar
distractions. Rather than just watching one or two videos *you know
you want to watch* and then moving on, you can find yourself engaging
in an extended "web surfing" session, spending hours longer than you
planned as one video leads to the next.

Tactics
-------

There are many tactics one can employ to counter the issues describe
above. Here are some:

- Schedule activities for a full schedule that doesn't allow for much
  slacking off; e.g. have an hour-by-hour routine that leaves little
  room to get distracted if you follow it with discipline
- Turn off/log off of distracting apps after checking them at a time
  you select in advance&mdash;make sure to get rid of notifications
  too
- Intentionally quit or postpone projects (including engaging in
  "social" activities like playing online games) that are out of
  control
- Find accountability to keep you on task


Work is hard enough already
---------------------------

It should go without saying that you should cut out any
counter-productive behaviors. If you are accustomed to eating a giant
lunch that makes you feel sluggish and get distracted, this is an
issue that you should address. If you are cluttering your workspace
such that you have no space to do what you need to do, then it may be
a good idea to invest a bit of time in improving the organization of
your workspace before pushing yourself with a demanding schedule.

When alone, give up notions of self-indulgence and instead focus on
how you can train yourself to do better. When possible, reserve
enjoying activities like eating and drinking nice things to when you
are with others&mdash;in doing so, you can simultaneously work on
building enduring connections with people around you.

I have done stuff like drank beer while playing video games for many
hours during a day where I didn't get much else done. Do not have days
like this&mdash;your time is more valuable.
