title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 69
date: 2020-11-07
category: News

One thing I've bought a lot of is **books**. In the US, growing up,
we're told *reading is good* and having a large vocabulary is one way
to "sound smart". Heeded uncritically, the advise "read a lot" can
lead you to become more foolish and more vain than if you couldn't
read at all.

Often talking to people does a lot more than reading books. There's
this idea in the Western world that books are these repositories of
**facts** or "information". Obviously, books typically are filled with
words. But just *how to understand the meanings of these words* isn't
always readily available. While a car's manual will be pretty
"literal" and straightforward, one could easily read a novel or watch
a movie with little to no idea about *who produced that work and for
what reasons*. This is very important to know for interpreting many
things.

The Search Engine View on Language
----------------------------------

Looking at a resource like Google books and/or Google N-grams, you
gain access to lots of information. You can see the earliest uses of
some words, when terms became more/less popular, and compare
frequencies of competing terms, among other things.

Doing this, you can gain access to a lot of *facts*, such as the word
such-and-such was used more often than some other word during some
period of time. Doing an activity like this, do you learn anything
about what sorts of *meanings* people are expressing?

In linguistics, there is this term "**arbitrariness of the sign**" for
the idea that the spoken/written *form* of a word doesn't reflect
anything about what it expresses in of itself&mdash;it is arbitrary.
For many, many words, there is a sense in which this is true. [^1]

Indeed, we can take old word *forms* and give them new meanings. For
instance, in 2020 in the USA, when we say "orange man", we all know
who this refers to. Likewise if I started to call people "sleepy" (or
"creepy") it would be understood that I'm probably not talking about
cute kittens taking naps or spooky skeletons on halloween. This old,
familiar terms have taken on new connotations in the present time. [^2]

Nowadays, we are *encouraged to throw around words* recklessly. Signs
and slogans plaster every street corner. Really, these signs convey
the meaning something along the lines of "I think such-and-such are
the *good guys*, and if you support such-and-such you're a *bad guy*".
Add in specifics as you like.

Meanings First
--------------

Many sayings of wisdom point out the value of practicing silence
and/or seeking silence/solitude.

Words are not "neutral" things that are just "out there". A resource
like a bilingual dictionary is not sufficient for learning a second
language, though it may be a useful tool. In order to understand a
second language, you need to have lots and lots of exposure to
speakers of that language.

While intaking a lot of words and learning how to use language well is
not a bad thing in of itself, it is also not necessarily *a good
thing*. Just as potatoes might be the best thing to eat for one person
and lemon juice over chicken might be good for another, the diet of
what words we consume can likewise affect our "verbal wellbeing".

[^1]: Function of words does often affect form; common words
    (including grammatical things like prepositions) across languages,
    for instance, tend to be short. Technical words can be longer,
    polysyllabic
[^2]: President Trump is called "orange" because of his skin color;
    Biden is called "sleepy joe" or "creepy uncle joe" by some critics

