title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 31
date: 2020-06-06
category: News

Today I spent some time watching Roosh V ([Roosh
Hour #48](https://www.rooshv.com/roosh-hour-48-america-burning) on
current events&mdash;but more importantly on Christianity. Roosh V is
(in)famous for previously teaching techniques as a "Pick Up Artist"
but has henceforth continued his authoring and podcasting journey as a
Christian. For his ability to do long streams, engage a diverse
audience, and offer compelling storytelling alone I think it is worth
it watch some Roosh. Hopefully beyond the form of his content you can
find something interesting as well. [^1]

I recall the first time I looked more than trivially at anything
Orthodox Christianity related&mdash;it was looking at
Evangelical/Protestant (the brand of Christianity I was familiar with)
versus Orthodox conceptions of the afterlife. For many Christians
(especially American Christians), these issues are of very big
significance; learning more about the history of Christianity you may
be surprised how many different views on such matters they exist and
how the "heaven/hell" as a literal place of bliss/suffering as
portrayed in popular media are rather particular concepts.

What appeals to me about (non-Evangelical) Christianity is that there
seems to be less preocuppation with the "literal meaning of words" and
pronouncements of certain doctrines. In Internet slang, one might call
many Protestant brands "autistic" in that they fixate on issues like
DO YOU ACCEPT STATEMENTS X, Y, and Z NECESSARY FOR SALVATION?
Likewise, you will have people splitting hairs over issues like the
age of teh earth. As I understand them, most other religions teach a
more wholistic lifestyle approach; it is not about suddenly
"believing" certain things or revalation so much as it is about
following some path...

I'm not personally close to anybody of Orthodox faith; it would be
curious to talk to some people at length, after I do some homework.
My understanding of religion is very colored by the particular sort of
Christianity I grew up with and the limited reading/study I have done
outside of this tradition.

In the upcoming days I will likely be doing more reading and research
into Christian matters, documenting stuff here.

[^1]: If you do check out Roosh's work, I would say just go straight
    to his website, [rooshv.com](https://www.rooshv.com/) and skip
    meta commentary about who he is and stuff from anonymous people on
    the Internet, journalists, etc. Then make your own evaluation and
    validate if needed&dmash; in general I think this is a decent
    approach to engage new authors. Note that I *am reading Harry
    Potter currently* (there is a meme going around that this is
    "liberal theory") so this isn't just about listening to "fringe"
    YouTubers or whatever; it is a methodology for giving all sorts of
    voices a fair hearing.
