title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 10
date: 2020-05-13
category: News

When discussing any data, we must make assumptions about the *validity
of the data*. Sometimes, this is pretty concrete. For example, if you
manage a café, you might have counts of how many coffees you sell each
day. This can help you answer questions such as *how many pounds of
coffee beans should be purchased each month?*

Stuff gets complicated, however, when people do stuff that people
do. For instance, getting free coffee refills. Suddenly, the
assumption of "one sold cup of coffee means one cup of (physical)
coffee" is broken because some blogger will park their butt in your
café and drink three cups of coffee over the course of two hours for
the price of one cup of coffee. In terms of how much coffee you must
order, this means for *some* customers, one cup of coffee sold means
*more than one cup of coffee's supply of coffee beans are required*.

In the above example, I use a seemingly simple measure (number of
coffees sold) to illustrate that *counting stuff and interpreting
counts* is seriously difficult business, especially if you are not
very familiar with the data involved. To be "data-driven" or
"fact-based" often means to wholeheartedly assume certain data sets
are as people report them to be.

Note that being skeptical of how good some data is *does not entail
"conspiratorial thinking"*&mdash;assuming some group of evil-scheming
people plotting a power grab or something to that effect. Data
collection can be bad because multiple well-intentioned actors follow
different procedures. Here we are looking at *the opposite of
conspiracy* in the sense of jointly-coordinated efforts towards some
aim&mdash;we are looking instead at messy data from different parties
failing to coordinate and the aggregation of data from different
(relatively independent) sources.

Viral Matters
-------------

I think we do have some pretty good info on how viruses operate and
spread generally. For instance, an (Internet) friend shared this
excellent, accessible article describing how a virus can spread and
what sorts of situations are high-risk: ["The Risks - Know Them -
Avoid
Them"](https://www.erinbromage.com/post/the-risks-know-them-avoid-them)
by Prof. Erin Bromage.

As far as I can tell, the info in this article is solid. The author of
the piece above is an expert in these things. Articles like the one
above are helpful as "field guides" to understand how to best protect
our friends and family from viral threats.

Let's assume we have a decent **model** of how viruses generally do
some stuff.

### Authority and Uncertainty

Prof. Bromage (from the above linked article) asserts [^1],

> Always defer to the guidance from your local Health Department or
> the CDC!

My uncertainty about the counts of COVID-19 matters leads me in no way
to contradict Prof. Bromage on questions of how viruses spread and
what we can do to protect one another. However, as an independent
individual (in the sense that I'm not a government official making
policy on COVID-19, a university professor who is obliged to honor
certain institutions), I have reasons to doubt how much the WHO or the
CDC or whoever knows about the (biological) reality of COVID-19
situation as it evolves. No need to open the geopolitics can of worms
here to make this point... [^2]

One big class of unknowns, as introduced in this article, is *what
exactly is being counted and how is it being counted*. To me, it seems
*heterogeneous*; we are seeing different ways of counting different
things from different places. This is no one individual's
fault&mdash;but I think it is helpful to appreciate this fact rather
than reactively making policies that *certainly* affect many people's
lives drastically.

In my own life, I have chosen to act (very) conservatively, pretty
much not going out at all over the past couple months. Should this be
ordered as a top down policy? I dunno, should we ban french fries and
tell people not to drive motorcycles?! This is a political issue!

Feelings and Politics
---------------------

Smart people, such as Prof. Broman, seem to assume we have decent
enough data on what is going on to make *mandates* on huge scale. We
are seeing a pretty big "civil disturbance" here; it is not "just the
flu bro" in terms of institutional/governmental responses.

We are collectively making decisions in using rather opaque
data. Policies like YouTube's anti-disinformation campaign against
content opposing the World Health Organization's [^3] statements on
COVID-19 make sense from a Chinese-style "social harmony"
perspective&mdash;we want everybody to be "on the same page" working
together. Big organizations everywhere are making similar "get on the
(establishment-approved) bandwagon" type policies governing what
people are allowed to say, less they be thrown into the "conspiracy
theory" loony bin.

Let us not confuse confident/assertive language for understanding!
We are living in times with more data readily available than ever, but
we have not collectively improved on how to filter or deal with all
that data. Statistics is a specialist's art (science? engineering
exercise?) and often those most knolwedgable about some model in the
world are most blind to see things in other terms [^4].

### Fear

Fear is one way to get people to hop on board with a decision. This is
the "if we don't do anything that's the worst" type thinking. Will
this lead to the best outcome? Unfortunately, this is often the tool
used to steer collective decisions (e.g. voting in democracies).

We can expect exploitation of fear to fuel political agendas (which
may be ones we agree with) to continue as long as humans continue to
make societies.

In this COVID-19 situation, I think that widespread fear is a
particularly big problem because we are seeing lots of
expansion/exercise of government power over all sorts of things: where
people can('t) go, who gets money, who is "essential", etc.

There is nothing wrong with fear itself; indeed it is a very useful
thing to make quick decisions (often without thinking) about stuff
like... *don't walk over some narrow crumbling bridge to take a selfie
or you might die* or *don't try to pick a fight with some dude who has
eight scary-looking friends around him*.

### Trying to understand the situation

Fear, however, can be counter-productive to understanding. In the
above examples, fear may save my life but it also prevents me from
understanding *what I can do*. I could stop and take a picture of that
scenic crumbling bridge, using a selfie-stick as a monopod thing to
get a better angle. I could observe the scary people from the shadows
and learn a bit more about the culture of the area I am in. When faced
with unknown situations, *fear* is a useful thing to feel. As
situations evolve/change, however, fear may wear away and we can begin
trying to understand things better...

Below are some strategies I have for trying to understand what's going
on around me, broadly:

- Respect **(primary) data** including **first-hand accounts** of what
  is going on; aggregate measures are good for some things, but can be
  very misleading when readily accepted in some pre-packaged narrative
- Seek out and **compare alternative choices/decisions**; somebody else
  may have a different take on something&mdash;investigate what
  assumptions they are making to lead them to believe this; don't
  assume someone is *irrational/idiotic* because they arrive at
  different conclusions than you; instead follow their chain of
  rationalization to find their beliefs (which you may find yourself
  agreeing with)
 - **Recognize we are making decisions under uncertainty** and realize
  that more certainty doesn't mean more understanding (think of your
  favorite "stupid zealot")

The tools I use to do this are many. For example,
**gossip/smalltalk/banter**
is a great way to find out about how people are thinking/feeling about
stuff generally. You could be a nerd and look at some aggregated poll
result (worse). Or, you could just listen to some different people
tell you stories and/or complain about stuff (better). This is primary
feelings data.

I intentionally **stay subscribed to/read media from people very
unlike me** because I think they may bring up good ideas that I am not
intended to find myself. For instance, I lean towards less top-down
control and more "muh freedoms" (libertarian) in how I prefer the US
to be run. However, I can see in anime how glorious *nippon* can be a
beautiful place with top-down directed castle building and government
sponsored giant robots. I personally wouldn't want to go through all
those Japanese formalities of bowing and saying this-and-that
phrase. But I recognize the aesthetic appeal of this and why Japanese
tourism is way more popular than me (at least pre-COVID-19, lol). I am
personally a cis-gendered straight male (type o blood, black hair,
brown eyes; very common). But I learned myself some basic gender
theory and SJW [^5] talking points because they point out some big
social issues of our time. There is no point denying the hurt/pain of
people unlike me, even if I don't agree with their political aims for
the most part.

Finally, we can remind ourselves of how we can get involved with some
idea/cause or another. This is one reason I write stuff here. I can
look at what I've said and see a record of how I've said smart/dumb
stuff. By writing about how I think about things, I can get insight
into stuff I do(n't) see and guard against where I might be led
astray. For instance, I know that in the past, I've been a relatively
conflict-averse ("agreeable") person, often to my disadvantage.

Declarations of Faith
---------------------

Returning back to COVID-19 matters...

We are witnessing an interplay of **fear** and **faith** with regards
to how people are responding to COVID-19. My word salad above
explains some ways in which I try to better undersand what's going on,
and consequently, how I determine who/what to put my trust in.

As I see it, we are all "people of faith", just different folks put
faith in different stuff. In these trying times, we are seeing many
sorts of "prophets" rising up, each belonging to different "churches",
and some using social media more than others, ha! As this COVID-19
business unfolds, we'll see how the "prophecies" of these different
groups unfold. Until it is over, we'll see fear continuing to drive a
"witch hunt" against those without unwavering faith in "the
establishment", broadly.

Generally, I think that *less escalation/application of state power*
is best because individuals can choose to protect themselves and their
families in many ways, to the extent they perceive COVID-19 as a risk.
I don't think the evidence/analyses of what is going on are good
enough to warrant total, prolonged, widespread mandatory shutdowns of
lots of stuff, as we're seeing. Though, I do hope
businesses/governments/etc. give people options to stay
quarantined/locked-down if they wish to choose this more conservative
option...

...in any case, until locked down times end... more blog posts 🙃



[^1]: On Prof. Bromage's [homepage](https://www.erinbromage.com/)
    accessed 5/13/2020
[^2]: It is difficult enough to assess the data in any one
    familiar-ish location (e.g. New York City for New Yorkers); I
    dunno wtf is going across the globe in places like Cambodia, Saudi
    Arabia, Russia, etc.
[^3]: ["YouTube Ramps Up Action to Remove COVID-19
    Misinformation"](https://www.socialmediatoday.com/news/youtube-ramps-up-action-to-remove-covid-19-misinformation/576577/)
    (Andrew Hutchinson; April 23, 2020)
[^4]: "I suppose it is tempting, if the only tool you have is a
    hammer, to treat everything as if it were a nail." &mdash;[Law of
    the
    Instrument]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_the_instrument")

[^5]: "Social Justice Warrior"; meant here as a descriptive term for
    people that so self-describe themselves as fighting for social
    justice, not in any sort of snarky/condescending way

[^6]: "something lame, dead-end, a dud, insignificant; especially
    something with high expectations that turns out to be average,
    pathetic, or overhyped."  [Urban
    Dictionary](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=nothingburger)
