title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 23
date: 2020-05-28
category: News

Civil unrest escalates in the United States. In many quiet corners of
the country, no change is visible. But in many
areas&mdash;particularly those with large numbers of urban poor
people&mdash;things are looking increasingly bad.

COVID-19 is still in the news, but it is more often *backgrounded* to
other happenings. People of all sorts are waiting for the "green
light" from policy makers&mdash;patients in need of treatment,
businesses in need of customers, programers in need of Vitamin
D... [^1]

I pop open a can of Campbell's Chicken noodle soup and heat it over
the stove. I toss in some frozen peas for a nutritional boost, and
munch on a couple of carrots in the fridge while I wait for the soup
to heat up. I pace around the shade in my backyard a bit; the summer
heat is getting intense such that walking barefoot on the
concrete/stone would hurt. Some sad doggo is getting walked on these
hot surfaces as I write this, I'm sure.

I meditate upon the most recent Luke Smith video: ["Enjoy the
Cyberpunk Dystopia of Proprietary
Software!"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f5UEuWMlqRI).  Yes, in
many ways we *are already living in a cyberpunk dystopia*.  My matrix
portal machines (Windows PCs) hum in the background as I type here on
using a fancy ["batman"
keyboard](http://xahlee.info/kbd/ergonomic_keyboards_index.html) on an
older machine. [^2]

For most of the day, I hover among a handful of computers, none of
them bought as new, "state of the art" devices. I have a bunch of
monitors, of which two I had purchased and the rest I got for free
somehow. The machines I am using are not limiting me; it is my own
ability and organization that prevents me from doing
better&mdash;locked indoors with these devices, some useful books and
reference materials, ...I'd probably emerge into the light as a more
skilled computer user than before.

It is often a difficult path to do this&mdash;to go to the wilderness
away from the familiar and comfortable. Wandering in the desert is a
path that some have the luxury of choosing; perhaps more often than
not, it is a place where people just *end up*.

Whereas *the jungle* is a place filled with disease, things to kill
you, life forms all over... the desert is a relatively stale place.
The desert feels *solitary*&mdash;rather than having too much life all
around and being fearful of what might eat you, the desert presents
many mechanical, inorganic challenges.

COVID-19 has made many *cyberpunk dystopia jungles*. There are eyes
(and apps) everywhere *watching*. Some neighbors stand by ready to
report rule breakers. Signs and slogans abound like the colors of
poisonous animals warning potential predators away. People develop
venom and fangs, wings to jump between trees, and/or thick skin.  Life
is everywhere, but the form it is taking is not that of a fluffy
housecat. It is a ginormous puma lunging at your throat, a school of
piranha ready to devour whatever falls into the water, a bat (which
probably shouldn't be eaten in a soup)...


[^1]: Read ["The Definitive Guide to Sun
    Exposure"](https://www.marksdailyapple.com/sun/) by Mark Sisson
[^2]: A laptop, now over a decade old. It has a keyboard that doesn't
    work and its battery does almost nothing, but it is a fine
    "desktop substitute" running Linux. 4 GB of RAM is enough for me
    (I might even be able to do with just 2GB...) to do basic writing,
    web browsing, programing, etc.
