title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 5
date: 2020-04-24
category: News

In this post, I will describe how the delivery of information and
communication have changed during my life thus far, highlighting ways
in which current "high tech" ways of doing things have empowered small
groups of (technocratic) elites and the parties that pressure them to
push their (socio-political) agendas while undermining the well-being
of people who just want to build communities with their families
and friends while having some fun.

The evolution of information delivery pipelines
-----------------------------------------------

As a millennial (born in 1992), I recall a time when Internet access
was limited; it was a new and exciting "high tech" thing and having
access to computers was a kind of status symbol. Zoomers&mdash;born
and raised surrounded by Internet connected technologies&mdash;did not
experience the transaction from the "pre-Internet" world to the
"Digital Age" just as most millennials don't have the experiences that
lead many Boomers to become globalism embracing hippies.

I think that overall, the expansion of the Internet (c.f. THE MATRIX)
has led to a much more **fragile** world in the sense any one group's
decisions can have
[*hyuuuuuuuuuuuuuge*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEA33bAXyNM)
consequences. Effectively, this means that propaganda is more
effective and faster acting. Like a machine gun versus a hunting
rifle. Frightening!

### The reach of news

In the 20th century, people often got news through the "legacy media"
in forms like:

- Newspapers
- Magazines (e.g. Time magazine)
- Broadcast media (television, radio)

These forms of "legacy media" are non-interactive in the sense that
they don't have something like *comments* sections that give instant
feedback. You could call into a talk show or something, but
participating in things like this is not the default behavior of most
listeners&mdash;most people
[**lurk**](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=lurk),
actively observe but not contribute content.

Certainly, there was news everywhere even before my time&mdash;for
instance in the 1980s, I imagine there were lots of TV broadcasts
running in corporate break rooms, dentists' offices certainly had lots
of magazines, super markets put tabloids near the front of the
store.

Nonetheless, news media was not as *pushy* as it is now on the
Internet. You could simply avert your gaze and look at something else;
nowadays, getting rid of news, advertisements, etc. often takes some
technical know-how and complex configuration&mdash;it is not something
that can done instinctually with no training. The channels of
information in which news is delivered are required for daily (urban)
living: students must use web browsers to interact with their schools
and complete assignments, many companies are moving towards
electronic-only "paperwork", etc. 

**Nerd aside**: This trend has invaded even privacy + free information
concerned spaces.  A recent-ish annoying thing is that the Firefox web
browser pushed news stories onto their default home
page&mdash;alienating nerds who had chosen firefox to avoid things
like this that happen on browsers like Chrome, Safari, and Edge.

### Social interactions

News sitting in web browsers is non-threatening enough. But what about
wearing an advertisement on your forehead?

This is much of what is being normalized in what I will call
**corporate mediated communication**, using communications technology
(such as messenging apps) where corporate interests are pushed on the
user. This is perhaps the biggest problem I am seeing with information
technology today. One-on-one communication reaks of third party
intervention!

Some context&mdash;besides face to face conversations, the
pre-Internet channels for communication include:

- Phone calls (LAN line means ur mom could be eavesdropping)
- Letters/postcards (relatively long form; you have to pay money to send)
- Other solutions, e.g. leaving notes on the refrigerator, 

None of these media feel particularly "corporate". Sure, you probably
have to work with a company to get your phone line set up, but then
after that, you are largely left alone&mdash;we'll assume nobody is
tapping your wire for now, ha!

Not so with smartphones/apps and most (desktop) online experiences!  I
leave Candy Crush installed in Windows 10 so that when I open the
Start menu, I can be reminded that I am in THE MATRIX. When you open
your (smart)phone, unless you flipped a bunch of options, you are
probably greeted by all sorts of news. Android pushes a lot of Google
news and stuff at me.

Seeing these things, if only for an instant, *colors our
conversations*. Google/Apple/etc. seizes a bit of our attention before
we started chatting with our friends/family, listening to music, etc.
We may *think* we aren't paying attention to these things, but the
headlines and stuff stick&mdash;we get the sense that "the whole world
is doing XYZ"... ...big corporations are determining the contexts of
our conversations by setting mood lighting to their robo-desires.

Locked Down, Locked In
----------------------

As people are having fewer face-to-face conversations (because they
are not going out), more and more acts of communication
("conversations") are being carried out through corporate-mediated
communications technologies.

Prevailing narratives such as "END OF WORLD", "TRUMP BAD", "CHINESE
VIRUS", etc. infect people's thinking as tech companies troll our
minds by constantly telling us *what to think about*.

If you open a tool box, your hammer may suggest hitting nails to you,
but that is about it. A piano sitting in your living room may suggest
"you should practice", but it doesn't say "think about XYZ; should we
do military intervention?!".

Having made some conscious decisions about how I set up my tech, I am
relatively well off standing back and analyzing what's going on with
the news and stuff. But I don't expect this of most
people&mdash;especially if they are busy doing important work like
saving people as medical workers or keeping our (already crumbling)
infrastructure from totally collapsing.

My current attitude is to low-key hate smartphones specifically, but a
lot of the "information ecosystem" more broadly, and avoid invasive
technologies most of the time. Nonetheless, I recognize that these
technologies are ubiquitous things and that I can't get away with not
using one (at least until I have a family of my own, some land,
etc). I was born and raised in THE MATRIX and I must do my part to
help those still in it. So I am doing things like this... writing blog
posts to share my thoughts to hopefully help at least some people see
what is going on with information delivery and then make better
informed decisions about things rather than accept the terrible
"default settings" which we are naively handed.
