title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 112
date: 2021-03-26
category: News

The "original encryption" of symbolism, different languages, allegory, and
parables cannot be silenced. As I've been exploring in my *Search Engine
Stupidity* series, a lot of players in this world now are trying to control
speech (and through this *thought*) via "data-driven"/algorithmic approaches. [^1]

Ultimately, this approach is futile because the correspondence between `tokens`
(the characters/forms that we recognize; what computers can count) and meanings
is not fixed. Furthermore, the "*sum of the parts* is not equal to the *parts
of the sum*" (might have butchered this quote a bit). You can string together
words together in many ways&mdash;this is a fundamental idea in "generative
grammar"&mdash;how we can systematically build up meanings from a finite set of
rules. Simply blocking some **keywords** (including `hashtags`) *cannot prevent
meanings from being conveyed*. Indeed, *silence* too communicates...

I don't expect "free speech"
----------------------------

While having **"free speech"** is something many of us would *prefer* to have,
there are many reasons why this isn't some kind of normative requirement for a
"free/functioning society".

In the United States, we have seen certain parties at time press for more "free
speech" to allow the spread of all things lewd, crude, and rude. Then, when
"free speech" means revealing deeds of darkness then suddenly we get a
narrative of *fighting disinformation*. Lol.

I think a lot of these things are simply *outside of our control*. What we can
do, however, is learn to use language(s), symbols, and more to say what needs
to be said. We can move with swiftness some "algorithm" (implemented by people,
of course) cannot keep up with.

One thing I find kinda funny about all of this is that the way to do this isn't
*technical* so much as it is *personal*. Meaning, the tech/channels we have
available now are perfectly adequate for all sorts of communication. But it
takes tact to navigate them without getting banned and stuff. Obviously, you
don't want to use naughty words that will get your accounts flagged, blocked,
shadow-banned, etc. Operating in this way, you can utilize big platforms like
Facebook, Google, Twitter, and so on&mdash;extracting maximum value&mdash;while
not capitulating to their ideological agendas.

It is an *inversion of subversion!*



[^1]: [Part 1](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/search-engine-stupidity-part-1.html), [Part 2](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/search-engine-stupidity-part-2.html), [Part 3](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/search-engine-stupidity-part-3.html), [Part 4](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/search-engine-stupidity-part-4.html), [Part 5](https://captainalan.github.io/pelican-test/search-engine-stupidity-part-5.html)
