title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 96
date: 2021-01-26
category: News

For those out there with some experience bossing around computers, you
may have heard the terms "**higher level**" versus "**lower level**"
programming. "Lower level" work refers to doing things *closer to the
hardware*&mdash;working with computer architecture, sensors on
Raspberri pis, and stuff like that. You are *closer to the machines*.
In contrast, "higher level" programming deals with stuff closer to the
"end user". So, doing front-end web programming "higher level"
programming relative to working on optimizing operating systems. As
these terms imply, higher vs lower level programming is a *relative*
thing, and one should not get too caught up bickering and in
categorizing stuff.[^1]

What is the lowest level programming? Using some definition of
"programming" that is "giving instructions to machines", the simplest
instruction is probably to flip some switch on or off. The "computer"
this can be implemented on can be any number of things. For example,
you could do arithmetic on an abacus, in which the switches are itself
the "display". You could likewise communicate over long distances
using a system of flags to send coded messages.

The "higher level" programming beyond this then is organizing systems
such that work you want to get done is done consistently&mdash;and if
you set it up correctly, with little or no intervention on your part
(as the "programmer").

In this sense, we can call **entrepreneurship** as an even *higher
level* of programming than say JavaScript web applications. We can say
"**business**" is the operation of systems/programs set up by the big
branes and risk takers who connect **inputs** (money, labor) to
**outputs** (money, goods, services).

As explored in some earlier posts, really, each person is a kind of
"small business" in the sense that we all have to buy stuff, spend
money, and so on and so forth. Just how we get money to fund our
habits differ from person to person&mdash;some people work a normal
9-5 job, others do trading of some sort (e.g. real estate, stocks),
some mostly inherit wealth, and so on and so forth. Likewise, everyone
lives *somewhere*&mdash;not everyone has a house of course, but we all
occupy the same earth together.

Given that we are all capable of doing all sorts of labor, and by
virtue of being alive and having *time* each day, the question
presents itself&mdash;towards what ends will I use *myself*, a being
cooler than any gaming PC ever?!

Establishing discipline, getting organized, and being focused on goals
are essential things to do when writing effective computer programs.
Similarly, when we look at organizing *higher levels* of how *we*
operate, we can seek to improve the efficiency of our operations. [^2]


[^1]: Many nerds on the Internet, for instance, have had the debate
    "what is **programming** vs **scripting**, wherein "scripting"
    usually implies a relatively high level language.
[^2]: On YouTuber Alex Becker's channel I heard this funny
    thing&mdash; "everyone is who they want to be in the Sims". That
    is, in some video game, if you could *choose* how to live a
    fantastic life given some inputs and outputs, most people would
    live quite differently than how they live day to day (e.g. just
    *click a button* to go get exercise everyday; how many people do
    this?). Often, it is what are called the *passions* in traditional
    Christian writings that we yield control to, and in doing so
    subject ourselves to doing things we wouldn't allow ourselves to
    do if we were somehow "disembodied" or looking at our bodies from
    a "third person perspective".
