title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 94
date: 2021-01-16
category: News

"Thinking" is a term with many different senses in English.
Here are some,

- Considering
- Deliberating
- Imagining
- Calculating (especially in modern times where computer and brain
  comparisons are so widespread)
- Repeating (e.g. to memorize something)
- Worrying (to which someone might say to you, "quit *thinking* so much!")
- Planning
- Analyzing

Sometimes people decide to "think out loud", which may mean talking
and having someone else listen&mdash;or, more similar to what I'm
doing here&mdash;put some words on a piece of paper or text document
(if you like to use computers sometimes).

Over-thinking
-------------

The idea of **overthinking** is that at a certain point, *analysis* of
some situation is done. You *know what you have to or should do*, now
*will you do it?*

Overthinking means avoiding doing concrete actions you already know
should be done and instead engaging in additional "thinking".

Failure to think
----------------

On the other hand, **not thinking** is usually used to refer to
someone who does something impulsively, without understanding what
would be to a more discerning person *obvious consequences* of some
action. For example, if a friend signs up for some scam and pays a
whole bunch of money, you would say that this friend wasn't thinking
properly (did they just give into emotions, greed?). Likewise you
might say this friend failed to do a correct action&mdash;such as
consulting someone more trustworthy and knowledgeable about
investments&mdash;and rushed into something without patience.

Institutionalized Wrong Thing
-----------------------------

Many habits of thinking are taught in educational institutions that
can do more harm than good. I've been coming to the conclusion that we
(collectively as a society) place an overemphasis on *creativity* and
*calculating*, exemplified by the enthusiasm of many to get involved
in **game programing**. While I don't think there's anything
inherently wrong with game programing itself, the reasons people might
get involved in a field like this seem to often stem from certain
ideas about thinking which are prominent in popular culture.

Firstly, there is *creativity*&mdash;which to a modern person often
means something like "making something new". So rather than turning to
time-tested, known methods and forms for doing stuff, kids are
encouraged to blaze their own path and introduce new innovations. The
big tech companies in particular like to push this idea of the "Iron
Man" technology hero or corporate idea-person.

One problem with this&mdash;pointed out by **Sam Hyde** in many
skits/videos&mdash;is that you get armies of useless "artist" types
who are unwilling or unable to participate in "real work" and instead
insist on the importance of their "creative" projects in writing, art,
music, film, and so on.

Now, this is not a tirade against *individuality*. We are all
unique&mdash;whether we want to be or not. But it is telling that many
people are encouraged down paths that lead them to be vain,
egotistical, bitter, angry, and also "unsuccessful" in terms of
money/reputation. This is what so many so-called "creative" people
experience.

Game programing also involves lots of tedious *calculation*&mdash;what
is programing anyways, besides giving instructions to computers?
Calculating is often very difficult (it can be hard to write software
solutions) and it takes a lot of time and effort to become a skilled
programer&mdash;not everyone can do it.

...and what results are produced?

While I enjoy playing games from time to time, there is a kind of
consensus that "playing too many games is a waste of time".

Whereas growing, processing, selling and distributing healthy food
wouldn't be called a "waste of time" by anyone (we all need food to
live), devoting most of one's time and energy to produce
*entertainment* seems a bit off as a mainstream path to encourage
millions of young people down.

Less nerdy types might take to the activity of creating a *brand*. As
with games, I don't think that this is inherently bad (you have to
know who to trust&mdash;brands can help us know who we are interfacing
with). But what difference does "brand" make if all your choices come
from the same slave-labor factories with near-identical looking
logos/graphics (thinking about a lot of "fashion" these days)?

Doing versus "thinking"
-----------------------

This post explores the idea of how "thinking" often is a vain, futile
activity&mdash;especially in many of the forms our mainstream/popular
culture encourages it. *Do NOT try to think of 100 more Pok√©mon*. You
have better things to do.

Rather, we should allow proper time to reflect, deliberate, and so
forth (maybe paired with going for a walk, keeping a little notebook
in the car...). But then most of our time should be turned to *doing*
things that we know we should be doing.

Building a **schedule/routine** is an effective way to reduce the
amount of time spent dilly-dallying and *get to work*. This is because
you will spend less time in deliberating "oh, what should I do next?"
