title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 92
date: 2021-01-12
category: News

Clarifying the purpose of things is a helpful way to find out what
is(n't) essential to your day to day workflow, cut costs, and improve
productivity.

Young adults especially&mdash;upon getting some "disposable
income"&mdash;may be quick to start accumulating "fun" things,
equipment for various hobbies, and so on and so forth. What is the
*cost* of this sort of behavior?

If you are actively involved in doing some activity such as *playing
the piano*, then of course it makes sense to have readily accessible
keyboard nearby. No explanation is needed for objects that readily
present themselves as useful for the activities you choose to do
day-to-day.

What about various "decorations", "hobbies" and other things you may
be involved with? Here, I think *what sort of living situation you are
in* is crucial to consider. If you are in a house/place you expect to
be in for the forseeable future, then I think it can make sense to
have lots of stuff&mdash;e.g. specialized seasonal clothing and
decorations. These may be items which you use year after year, if only
for a month or two out of the year&mdash;I don't see any inherent
problem with this.

However, if you are fresh out of college (or still attending a
university), in a city you don't plan on being in for the "long run",
and so on, then I don't think it typically does more harm than good to
purchase stuff other than tools and things that will be useful to you
daily in an obvious way&mdash;like if you play decide to play some
videogames sometimes, you may have a gaming console.

The scenario you want to avoid is having to deal with a lot of "stuff"
that serves no real purpose to you. Because if you spent a couple
thousand dollars over a year on various things and then at the end of
the year you have to move and you end up *having to throw away most of
this stuff*, when what have you done really? You've generated more
waste in the world through consumerism instead of focusing on quality
goods and how to use your time and energy to do useful work for
yourself and others.

In the coming days, I'll be working on doing some "cleaning out" of
various items&mdash;updates will be posted here about how this process
itself helps me gain clarity and focus on refining my actions.
