title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 8
date: 2020-05-10
category: News

Many parts of "daily life" can seem tedious and annoying.  Take a
morning commute, for instance. Sitting in traffic on the way to sit in
a cubicle?!

All this COVID-19 business has made me appreciate how having certain
discrete "events" in my day&mdash;which at times may have seemed
annoying&mdash;have acted as useful for anchor points for both
structuring my time and "keeping up" with various things I don't
typically directly concern myself with.

For instance, through riding my bicycle to class/study, I gained lots
of first-hand knowledge of on-going (societal) trends. I don't really
feel much of an intrinsic desire to keep up with pop culture. But,
going around town, I'd hear songs, see people with graphic T-shirts,
etc., which would inform me about what's buzzing. I'd see what kinds
of pets were popular, how Chinese vs Japanese vs Korean fashions
differed, what restaurants were popular... All sorts of observations
that contributed to understanding "what it is like" *to be* in
such-and-such time and place happened during the "transition times" of
commuting.

By being in the *same world* as others, we learn to relate with one
another.

"The Routine" as Shared Experience
----------------------------------

The utility of activities such as the morning commute do not become
apparent until they are gone. Lock-down times have taught me how
important many aspects of routine are in developing a sense of
connection with the people around me. We need *shared context* with
those around us to understand each other; simple routine things like
*having to go to meetings* and *commuting along XYZ freeway* are
representative "lowest common denominator" ways in which we can relate
to one another [^1].

Going through all this lock down stuff makes me reflect on *how very
different* each of us is experiencing COVID-19. Aside from the
Internet, we lack a "common space" to meet one another&mdash;in the
past decade or so of my life, this has been school/coffee
shops/restaurants.

Re-creating Shared Context
--------------------------

In these physically isolated times, it is in the shared spaces of
social media (e.g. Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, games,
Discord, etc.)  that we establish norms and shared experiences.

I consider it important that we have *individuals*&mdash;not just
polished corporate accounts&mdash;producing content. Meme
"shit-posting", status update ramblings, and rando-comments are all
things we can do to claim our place in "writing the narrative" of what
COVID-19 was like. Nobody is going to passively observe me walking
around town, because I'm parking my butt according to lock-down
directives. But somebody might scroll by a click-bait title I produce,
and in this sense, I enter the subconscious in the same way I would
walking down a street.

Only for the time being, the streets that we "walk" down are social
media feeds of various sorts. Until we can again freely walk the
streets, we stroll down the "public" boulevards of the Interwebs via
social media.


[^1]: "Lowest Common Denominator" means that it doesn't require
    special knowledge, training, subtlety etc. to understand these
    things. Generally accessible. Like Marvel movies or Boba tea.
    Contrast with "acquired tastes" (such as differentiating varieties
    of black coffee or kimchi; expertise on 19th century Russian
    novels)
