title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 124
date: 2021-05-16
category: News

Years ago (at least five or six?), I had this idea that I only wanted
to get "consumables" as gifts. That is, stuff like food/drink, cash,
etc. The idea was that one source of *problems* in our lives is the
accumulation of a bunch of stuff that isn't particularly useful.

I think I understand a bit more why I had this intuition.

Sometimes I find that things I own drive my decisions rather than the
other way around, which should be the case. What should be is that we
make use of the things we have for some other goal. Instead, I may
find myself saying "well, I already own XYZ; so how should I make
choices to make use of XYZ?"

There is nothing *inherently* wrong with a bicycle, or a microwave, or
even some useful books. Let me pull out a quote I learned of studying
statistics:

> To the hammer, the whole world looks like nails

Imagine owning a hammer and therefore thinking that everything you did
should involve maximally efficient hammer usage.

What is absurd is the presupposition that hammers are the best tools
for *every job*. Certainly, there are certain tasks in which a hammer
is the best tool. But for everything? We know this isn't the case.

Technology, generally
---------------------

A more recent realization I had is that we might look at other sorts
of tools we have, such as **computers**, and then think about the
world like in the hammer example above. Just because computers *can*
be applied to many domains, does that mean we should maximally
computerize everything?

While the world may be heading in this direction (and therefore it
doesn't hurt to learn about computers and how to interact with an
increasingly "digital world"), I personally do not think that we have
any sort of moral imperative to push the world towards a more
interconnected/digital/global/etc future.

Problems such as "sharing information among scholars" might seem
urgent to some; but really, we can do this via e-mail. What is more
important is that the relevant parties are able to find and contact
each other. How this happens is a topic for a different time.
