title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 115
date: 2021-03-31
category: News

By examining our own habits (and individual actions), we can look at
how the choices we make impact the people and institutions around us.
For instance, growing up going to school, most of us probably had some
classes we liked more and others we liked less. Was this simply an
issue of the *subject matter?* More so than this, we have
teachers&mdash;some are more effective than others&mdash; as well as
our classmates who "make or break" our experience. Some class might
have been very nice to be in not because the "material" was
interesting or engaging, but because the classroom offered a
"platform" to make friends, learn from mistakes without unduly strict
punishment, and so on.

I've been to vending machines
-----------------------------

Why would anybody use a vending machine? An automatic box to feed
money to large corporations&mdash;for products that are likely not
very good for you. Yet I have used vending machines many times. Why is
this?

### Lack of planning/preparation

One reason one might use a vending machine is because adequate
prepartions were not made. For example, understanding that you will
want something to eat at a lunch break at the office, why go to the
vending machine and choose among those choices? A moment of reflection
will reveal that with a little bit of planning you have many more,
*and better* options.

The ritual of going to a vending machine, looking at the glowing
lights, pondering what will be appetizing...

While this may be temporarily entertaining/engaging, I doubt many of
us reflect back on our time in front of vending machines as
particularly *good* experiences. Rather, we became enchanted by those
glowing rectangles and settled for a worse option than we could have
had if instead we had used our minds to set up a better system before.

### Lack of self-control

Suppose you did pack yourself a nice lunch, but then stumbled across a
vending machine. Impulsively, pulling out the wallet, searching for
payment, we indulge ourselves in some *secret eating*. [^1]

Lying awake at 3 AM, do I say "drinking that energy drink was a really
good idea"?

Small choices are not without consequences and the sooner we begin to
learn from our errors&mdash;rather than ignoring or
justifying&mdash;we can become less confused.

Changing ourselves first
------------------------

The *modus operandi* of the modern "activist" is to rage at the world
for institutional change. With the vending machine example from
personal experience, I aimed to show how even seemingly small/simple
things we do can be instrumental in "fueling the beast"&mdash;first
the passions within ourselves, and then through that, the world which
responds to our requests.

As we notice the effects of evil in the world, the politicians market
to us to *vote this way* or *vote that way* to make change. I don't
think this is how change happens, though maybe some laws will get
passed and stuff.

Rather, by taking control of our thoughts (and through that, our
actions) we become the vessels by which "things get better". 


[^1]: Interestingly, **secret eating** is listed among the
    [passions](http://www.innerlightproductions.com/2013/01/st-peter-of-damascus-virtues-and.html)
    to be overcome. In modern cultures, enjoying a little snack is
    seen as something small and innocuous&mdash;maybe something to use
    as a reward after completing some arduous task.
