title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 13
date: 2020-05-17
category: News

This crisp morning air greets me as I clean out some coffee grounds
from yesterday and prepare a new pot of coffee for today.

"Siberia"
---------

There is a corner of the yard in the place I am renting which I call
*Siberia*.  When I first moved to that location, there was a pile of
broken stuff there&mdash;rotting wood stakes, a broken broom (the
straw bristles of the broom were almost gone, though the handle still
was intact), and a trash bin thing filled with spider webs [^1].

It is to Siberia that plants with harmful fungus/insects are sent,
where occasionally coffee grounds are dumped, and where an occasional
unappetizing potato or onion beyond cooking is cast. In this way, it
serves as an informal compost heap. It is also a place where plants
which might get thrown out as to not infect other plants are given a
fighting chance to rid themselves of their sickness and emerge
stronger than before. *Siberia is a chance for redemption*. 

When I pace to-and-from in the yard&mdash;perhaps while trying to find
some solution to some technical problem&mdash;I arrive at Siberia at
one end of my route. In the winter, it was rather barren. But as
spring arrived and now as we head towards summer, Siberia teems with
life.

It is not ordered; there are no plants arranged in nice rows, no vines
climbing allocated pole things. It is a garden cultivated in
chaos. The plants living there take what they can get and they fight
to organize waste into a chance to live, prosper, and reproduce.

The plants of Siberia need no instruction from me; they will be
well-behaved carbon off-setters regardless of my input. This is very
unlike websites, which I build for my day job. Neglect of websites
means decay. Abandonment means growth stops. A website that is not
frequently updated makes visitors wonder "is this *still a thing?*".
Plants are *still a thing* even if we ignore them and stomp on them as
they grow between sidewalk cracks.


The Smell of Frugality and Civic Society
----------------------------------------

It is seven something AM; I realize that the "vibe" around me reminds
me of my (K-12) school. In California, most students have to wake up
around 7 something. They will experience the "7 am air" as they hop in
a car, loiter around the school gates, ride a bicycle to school, etc.

There is no stop to a luxurious coffee shop today (as we are under
COVID-19 lockdown). During college and grad school, I would do stuff
like that all the time&mdash;pay a couple of bucks to loiter somewhere
before carrying out my duties.

Now, I get a similar feeling to being back in grade school because I
am being frugal and not going out to buy stuff; I can scrounge around
the kitchen for whatever if I am hungry or thirsty. Or I can just sit
on the floor and type away at my computer, transcending the "material
realm".

Today feels very... not corporate. It feels "civic" in a nice way. The
world is not screaming at me with advertisements because I've set up
my computing/media stations to get rid of that [^2].  Maybe, I can say
it feels more "martial" in the sense that I am not really thinking
much about market pressures and stuff. I'm planning and preparing for
the week ahead, keeping logs like this, and organizing and maintaining
stuff. I'm not thinking about what to
[consoom](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/consume-product-consoomer).

What is the opposite of "abstracting"?
--------------------------------------

I will not concern myself with some silly hyper-verbal discussion
about whether today feels more "civic" or "martial"; I am here to
describe stuff&mdash;feelings dump, narrate diary style this-and-that.
The text analysis ("Natural Language Processing") programs can conduct
whatever classifications they want on what I write here.

The plants of Siberia care not for my abstractions or yours. I pace
to-and-fro thinking of solutions to technical problems. When that is
tiring, I can interact with other people and enjoy the human realm.


[^1]: I swing around this broom (mostly handle) like a samurai sword
    for some light arm exercise.
[^2]: The easiest way is to shove my phone in the corner and ignore it
