title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 76
date: 2020-11-20
category: News

Today I did some research on the current state of some places in the
USA I've been to. Through sites like YouTube you are still able to
view many videos of "eyewitness accounts"&mdash;people with cameras
showing what they see. Likewise, there are the popular big news
companies with more "traditional" media type videos. The job of the
**analyst** (you as you watch YouTube) critically) is to piece
together what is going on broadly from these various sources.

Movies, TV shows, and other relatively high budget productions can be
called more *tightly controlled* than some dude with a phone uploading
some video. A blog like this one is much less "polished" or "refined"
than some book through a big publisher.

These different forms of media have different uses. A higher budget,
more refined document may be useful for seeing some systematic plan
spelled out. It can be "tighter" in that special provisions may be
made to answer possible objections, address shortcomings, and so
forth.

On the other hand, a blog post like what I'm doing here doesn't try to
be "comprehensive". Its value is in how quickly it is
written&mdash;"one-session writing" [^1] It is similar to a "vlog"
where someone flips on a webcam and starts talking, but it is in text. [^2]

The dangers of repeating "talking points"
-----------------------------------------

When we repeat some "fact" given by experts, we often carry with what
we are saying an affirmation of some big theoretical framework. For
instance, we can talk about "**mental health**"&mdash;looking at
things like *depression* or *anxiety*.

There are some "primitives" I think we can agree on here; some days,
we may wake up and feel a particular way. Talking to others about our
experiences, we will find that these things we experience are not
unique to us as individuals, but common to many humans. Getting to
know people better, we can find how the day-to-day choices we make
impact how we think, feel, etc.

Now, if someone I generally trust tells me about their experiences, I
believe what they say in their reporting. But this does not mean I buy
into establishment psychological research, their shifting categories,
and their definitions of various conditions.

Earnest research into many of the *sciences* of this era will show you
just how rocky of a foundation much of the language we throw around
today is.

### Case study: ADHD

Growing up, many friends around me were diagnosed with ADD or
ADHD&mdash;Attention Deficit (Hyperactivity) Disorder. Thankfully, I
never had to take any medications, get diagnosed, or do anything
personally with this, but I know many people who did. People in their
mid 20s to early 30s (millennials) in many parts of the USA likely
have very similar experiences.

Here are some *experiential claims:*

- sometimes it is hard to focus on things
- lots of what you are asked to do in school is boring (especially now
  with online classes for many)
- being able to move around, go outside, etc. often makes me feel
  better

AD(H)D diagnoses were made to *bend kids to accept public school*.
Medications and stuff can make people more compliant, and thus more
prepared to "succeed" in a given social framework.

Now, if you "have a conversation with someone about ADHD", you have to
come up with a shared understanding of ADHD to get anywhere. For
instance, if both parties agree that there is indeed some *disorder*
affecting tons of kids, then the conversation moves to how to solve
this particular problem. What training methods can be employed to make
people accept such-and-such thing (e.g. standardized tests) that they
have a natural revulsion towards?

Conversely, you may have two people talking that don't really "believe
in ADHD" in the sense that they think that the foundations of much of
psychology are from literal mad scientists trying to treat humans like
"guinea pigs" to usher in some utopia/dystopia... Then, discussion of
ADHD may be more along the lines of how some establishment mongers
came up with a label for a particular "inefficiency" wherein humans
refused or were unable to act like the cogs in a machine they were
told to be. ADHD between these people is not discussed so much as a
"fact of reality", but instead as a concept that arose for particular
purposes one might regard as negligent at best and nefarious at worst.

### Use timeless languageo

One way to avoid getting caught up in the latest models/fictions of
how the world works is to avoid theory-laden speech. What are things
that are *self-evident* to us which require no explanation?

In some domain particular to the times, you'll of course have to use
jargon&mdash;talking about cars will require using certain terms that
would be innapropriate for talking about horses. However, even here,
we are still at the point of having *names* for identifiable *things*,
e.g. parts from different manufacturers. For most people, how a car
works is just "magic". So while you may have names for new things, the
basic way in which you talk about the interactions of those things can
still be "timeless".

Reading the Times
-----------------

Just as **personality test** type online quiz things remain popular, I
remember classmates coming up with collections of the various "mental
health issues" they had.

We now have a pretty extensive catalog of terms&mdash;with "official"
definitions as well as colloquial usages&mdash;to describe particular
patterns of thinking and behavior modern people attest as they contend
with the violence of the modern world. [^3]

We should not slander other people or call them liars&mdash;each
individual can report on their own experiences. However, to impose a
particular *model/language* to talk about how the world *must* work is
a kind of modern "Inquisition" (in the sense of *forcing religion*).

COVID-19 and the Language
-------------------------

In "police society", we are strongly-suggested to describe our
experience in terms of particular things *we are told about*. For
instance, you are asked to operate your business, to meet with other
people, and so on and so forth *in recognition of how a cadre of
scientific "clergy"* tells you how the world is.

Headlines everywhere will refer to *this thing* that we all are
assumed to be there. We have diagrams, explanations, videos, etc. all
explaining how this stuff works and why such-and-such is *reasonable*.

Philosophy 101 is... well, you start with some **presuppositions**
about how the world works, you can then **deduce** what follows.

So if you were an power-hungry world manipulator, the thing you would
do to control a bunch of people is to undermine their presuppositions
about what is true. If you can get them to accept a handful of axioms
as "self-evident" then a great many things logically follow.

Here are some things most people I know take for granted,

- Evolution of mankind from some non-human ancestor
- The great expanse of the universe, of which the earth is but a "pale
  blue dot"
- Social progress in the form of greater social liberty and provisions
  for a basic standard of living
  
From these three points, you can put forward pretty much everything in
Orwell's *1984* or Huxley's *Brave New World*.

Believing that **human nature** is maleable and that people can be
*made better* underlies the **transhumanist** movement. The idea is
that humans can be engineered like machines, so why not use whatever
means are available to us to *engineer greater human prosperity?*

Affirming the *smallness* of the earth itself doesn't seem to me to be
so problematic as *Scientism* and the importance cosmology within this
framework. Most of us *are not aspiring astronauts*; the workings of
billions of dollars, space shuttles, and all of this *isn't directly
our business*. Not working in these areas, I will not speak on the
specifics.

What we must affirm though is that a handful of narratives such as
*the threat of nuclear weapons*, *the "space race"*, and the need for
international cooperation in various technologically related projects
form much of the mythos of our present era. Generally, you can also
look into:

- Imaging/simulation technology; what is it possible to *present to
  the public* and how this does(n't) map to reality
- Hollywood and esoteric/occult connections
- Intelligence agencies and their role in large-scale world events

As we have embarked on "conspiracy theory" thinking here, I just want
to point out that,

- Saying you *don't know* about something isn't the same as calling
  such-and-such parties *liars*; many things we simply don't know as
  individuals and must accept based on **expert testimony**
- This is not an attack on **news** broadly&mdash;indeed this post
  opens by describing the importance of eyewitness accounts and the
  experiences of individuals. Rather, I'm advocating *not naively
  accepting narratives from large media companies*, assuming the
  people that direct their operations have your best interests in mind
- Epistemololgically (how we know what we know), you can see how shaky
  much of what we're told is. This is not like trying out a new weight
  lifting training routine and finding out you can lift more; we're
  going off unverifiable reports from parties we have reasons to be
  wary of

### Concluding thoughts

YouTube, the New York Times, Fox News, MSNBC, etc. all have their
problems, but that does not make these sources "bad" or "fake news".
Rather, when trying to find out what is going on broadly, a good idea
is to consider *what sources are* and *what they are not*. Simply
outsourcing your thinking about the outside world to a major
corporation the **Bernie bros** would aptly critcize [^4]

In this way, I think that the idea of "fact checking" with Google,
Facebook, etc. is **mega-cringe** because it will likely be a lot of
flagging of various trigger words and the cnesorship of materials that
don't follow a particular establishment narrative. Many blindly buy
into this idea because they think that they have access to The Truth
(TM) and that others get wrapped up on wrong-think, so it is necessary
to control the wrong-think through multi-million dollar corporations.


[^1]: I typically just write one draft in one session, make some
    modifications if anything stands out to me, and then publish.
[^2]: Text is easier to search, easier to archive (takes up less
    space, less things that can go wrong than audio/video). Of course
    there is information in video that you can't get in text.
[^3]: UrbanDictionary is one place you can go to learn about current
    usages. It takes discernment to know what is sarcasm, when people
    are pushing agendas, etc so do not take everything you read there
    at "face value" (this note is mostly for people who speak English
    as a second language).
[^4]: Supporters of Bernie Sanders, self-identified socialist and
    senator
