title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 64
date: 2020-10-27
category: News

Often, in sunny California, you will run into slogans plastered around
buildings, lining sidewalks, in stores, and in other places where
people frequently go which give imperatives like,

- READ
- SPEAK
- VOTE

...and so on and so forth.

Now, looking into just *who* is giving these messages and what they
want, it is not difficult to discern just *what sorts of things* they
want you to read, *what sorts of things* they want you to speak, and
*how they want you to vote*. If what you had to say was contrary to
what they were saying and it had the potential "critical mass" to
say... change the course of an election, well you wouldn't expect this
sort of messaging now, would you?

Content
-------

Of course it matters *what you read*, not just that you *do read*. At
a beginner stage, it may be useful to read any words to get used to
the sounds/spelling/etc of a language, but even so you wouldn't want
to delve into reading mind-warping stuff.

Similarly, *to speak* usually requires that you practice saying some
words. But you can do useful/normal things like ask everyday life
questions and use language to do work rather than recite potentially
occult incantations "just for fun".

Filtering
---------

We live in an age where we are often told *more is better*. If someone
has read a bunch of Wikipedia, many people will regard this person as
a rather broad-minded, learned person. The acquisition of
**trivia**(l) knowledge is a favorite activity of bar nights, [^1]
particularly among the self-proclaimed nerd/geek types.

Pride in uselessness&mdash;e.g. just *reading for the sake of reading*
is *no bueno*. In my own life, I've studied a bunch of languages. Is
that a *good* thing? If I don't do anything useful with this
knowledge, I'm pretty much just wasting my time&mdash;though it could
be worse. [^2] I don't even tell other people to go study a second
language if they haven't started it, despite having practiced this for
many years. Maybe they have learned something else useful that I don't
know how to do (e.g. how to maintenance on cars).

It is better to *filter* and guard ourselves against things that are
not good to see/hear/dwell on.

[^1]: Maybe not anymore due to COVID? I dunno!
[^2]: Language learning can be a "neutral" activity that can be used
    for good; e.g. working out to build a strong body&mdash;we can use
    the abilities we train for good or evil.
