title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 39
date: 2020-06-22
category: News

This weekend I went camping with some friends, which was very nice.
Taking some time away from work and normal scheduling can be a very
productive thing, I think. It's good to step back from stuff,
re-evaluate priorities, etc. from time to time. In the future, I'll
make it more of a point to do this intentionally and regularly. [^1]

Nerd thinking
-------------

One thing I've been reminded of a lot about over the past few years
especially is that it is important to "hang out" and loiter sometimes.
This is related to the topic of [not being a
**bugman**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdRJMuOFO88). [^2]

What is a *good use of time?* Nerds jump to **optimize** something,
and in doing so often miss "the big picture". For example, one could
go to school and focus almost solely on getting good grades. In some
parts of my life I have done this&mdash;luckily I was distracted
enough to have fun drawing some pictures and making some friends in
grade school.

By blocking out social interactions and focusing on just a few things
(like studying for an exam), one can potentially work much more
efficiently. This is why I think it is OK to do this a lot of the
time. However, doing this *all of the time* is no good because what
could end up happening is that one squanders their time on stupid
goals OR misses out on valuable opportunities elsewhere.

### Kinda Succeeding

Sometimes, the aforementioned behavior is kind of "built into the program".
For example, growing up and going to church, I found myself focused on
doctrine and "what the Bible says". This is a quite
Protestant/Evangelical Christianity feature, I think. Many other
people who call themselves Christians do not emphasize this aspect of
"practicing religion" so much. [^3]

In one sense, I succeeded by learning a bunch of Bible knowledge and
stuff. However, in another sense, I totally "lost"; if I look at
people I know who did a better job focusing on people/community rather
than being a nerd, they are the ones that are happily married with
families, community, etc.

Another way I tried to optimize stuff was using [**Spaced Repetition
Systems**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaced_repetition) (SRS) for
language larning for a while. The problem I faced was that I would not
accompany this SRS learning with enough other (more important)
learning&mdash;e.g. absorbing media of my target languages. On top of
this, I was studying way too many langauges at once. My
over-optimization led me to be able to recognize a whole bunch of
words in a whole bunch of languages but I was not well-practiced in
stringing together sentences, telling jokes, singing songs, and so on
in these languages.

Often times it is through networks that people get opportunities, not
being the best at some narrow domain. Those with nerd tendencies (like
myself) often jump to optimizing *something*. Combined with Bugman
tendencies, one can easily squander lots and lots of time developing
weird abilities and habits in all sorts of directions. This might be
appropriate sometimes (e.g. a kid exploring various interests), but it
is often not a good approach for getting things done in the "real world".

### LARPing as a Slav in the woods with Filipinos

Going camping, it was fun to try stuff I normally wouldn't do. For
starters, I don't like to deal with too much stuff when camping. I
helped move all sorts of stuff, including boxing gloves and coolers
filled with meat for fancy cooking. I got to throw a hatchet ðŸ˜±

There were other small things such as listening to other people's
music choices&mdash;a lot of the fun of music is social&mdash;we want
to enjoy music with other people eventually (this is why there are
things like concerts and dance parties).

Doing Better
------------

Hanging out with people and socializing is an important thing for
nerds to do. While one may be rather self-content on a day to day
schedule being a nerd, failure to "sync up" with society from time to
time means running the risk of becoming very "out of touch".

Beyond oneself, I think it is important to engage different people
generally&mdash;whether in age/generation, nationality, etc. Only
talking with people of a particular group (e.g. a gamer who only talks
with gamers) can lead to a very warped perception of the world and
many missed opportunities.

The arrogance of the nerd is thinking that they know better than
mainstream society because they do better in some limited domain.
This tendency should be tempered by humbling hang outs with other
elements of society.


[^1]: In [Getting Things
    Done](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done) there is
    the essential *review* time where one evaluates projects in order
    to make sure day-to-day work is contributing towards accomplishing
    goals.
[^2]: A person who rejects their heritage/history/family and tries to
    construct an identity on their
    [consooming](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/consume-product-consoomer)
    habits; a hyperindividualist fixated on "rationality"; rootless redditors
[^3]: Lots of quote marks being used here; to clarify&mdash;when using
    quote marks I'm emphasizing a *term/symbol* and how that thing is
    used. When two different people use some word (e.g. "believe),
    they may mean very different things. I try to mark which terms can
    be problematic when doing cross-cultural talk by putting quotes
    around stuff and elaborating if people coming from different traditions
    (but still "speaking English") may be confused. This is living in
    diversity and not having an assumed culture of my readership!
