title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 127
date: 2021-05-28
category: News

In the past, I've been interested in things like the **Dvorak keyboard
layout** and old text editors&mdash;namely **vim** and **emacs**. Why
is this? In specific domains, these tools confer some neat advantages.
To summarize, the Dvorak keyboard layout gives a more comfortable
typing experience as the letters are arranged in such a way that you
can type the most common letters without moving your hands from the
"home row". Key presses are more balanced between your right and left
hands. Vim and emacs are both **text editors**&mdash;programs used to
type stuff. For programmers, system administrators, and other "power
users" being able to quickly create and edit files is a valuable
skill.

Practically, however, the world has moved beyond many of the
applications for these tools. If you were tasked with choosing how to
do information technology in a small community from scratch, you very
well might teach these tools and keep things simple. People would be
able to work very efficiently and wouldn't need to learn much more
computing beyond some basic UNIX stuff.

However, in our modern world, this is not the case. It would be a real
pain to try to **retrofit** emacs or vim or some other old editor to
try to program in the "new style" of **web frameworks** like Angular
or React (yeah yeah... I know it is a "front end library"!). Simply
put, "modern" software development is designed for "modern" tooling.

To work on mastering cool old tools can be educational&mdash;you are
studying case studies of things that worked well with certain
limitations. LARPing as a 90s programmer and using vim to do
everything may be a fun way to practice solving some well-defined
problems by writing simple command line programs. [^1] However, for
"real world" applications (that is, what bosses might demand) you are
probably better off just using whatever the current "industry
standard" is...

This is my basic conclusion from enjoying using lots of "retro" or
specialized stuff/techniques&mdash;it isn't worth it to try to do
things in a *different* way if it isn't paying. Take the lessons from
it (e.g. keyboard commands are useful) and then move on; it is not
worth the overhead to try to customize the world to your
idiosyncracies. Just be normal!

[^1]: Aside from web programming, this is where most of my experience is.
