title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 108
date: 2021-03-16
category: News

Just recently, we  had "Daylight Savings Time" something-something in
California. I heard at least one person complain about software problems with
this. The *quantification of time* remains a complex issue that you probably
shouldn't ever try to write software for yourself unless you are a specialist
with a deep understanding of this topic. I will not go into extensive details
about the specifics of stuff here as to not tire you (the reader) and because
I wouldn't know what I was talking about.

Everyday Experiences of Time
----------------------------

Each day begins with the rising of the sun and ends with the setting of the
sun. You can verify "midday/noon" by when the sun is directly
overhead&mdash;you can see this by how shadows are cast.

During different seasons, we would say the days are *longer* or *shorter*. In
this sense, we can understand time in a *relative* way. Timing events like
*when to wake* and *when to sleep* with the seasons, you can see how the
generic "8 hour workday" of the modern world does violence to how we might more
naturally experience time doing some work more closely tied to the earth.

So the sun gives us a rhythm for each *day*.

When counting more than one day, we look to the moon. The moon will appear
differently on different days of a *month*. Note the word
["month"](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/month) comes from a form
meaning *moon*. In other languages I have experience with, we also find that
this is the case. For instance, in East Asian languages the character used for
months is the same one for *moon*.

Calendars measuring time based on cycles of the moon&mdash;**lunar
calendars**&mdash; have been developed in many different civilizations.  The
following line from the Psalms plainly states this reality we all experience:

> He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knowest his going down.  
> (Psalm 104:19, [KJV](https://biblehub.com/kjv/psalms/104.htm))

You may have heard something like "Chinese people used the *lunar* calendar,
but in the modern world we use a *solar* calendar". This is a big
oversimplification of this complex issue of counting time&mdash;Wikipedia on
the Lunar calendar says:

> The most commonly used calendar, the Gregorian calendar, is a solar calendar
> system that originally evolved out of a lunar calendar system.

Our current "best" calendar (the Gregorian calendar) is a smash-up of lunar
this and solar that with additional calculations mixed in. I couldn't recreate
it off the top of my head. I'll let Microsoft and stuff keep track of it for
now...

Modernity on Time
-----------------

Fluent English speakers will be familiar with the phrase "like clockwork".
Clocks, for many people, represent **precision**. A clock represents the
accurate accounting of time past. [^1] Luxury watches are something people
spend thousands of dollars on because among other reasons people admire the
craftsmanship of a visible and audible "mechanical genius". To behold a
well-made clock is to see the apex of human hands buildling automated
quantification&mdash;while a digital "quartz" watch may be more accurate, this
opacity of this sort of device (you can't see *how it works*; it is like a
"black box") makes it far less... romantic. [^2]

To the modern person, a "day" is not so much defined by the cycles of the sun
and the moon, but by a quantification imposed by "the establishment". A day is
24 hours, we are told, and of those you should spend 8 working, 8 sleeping,
around 1 on a lunch break possibly, and the rest attending to various other
duties. For many, the "6 day work week" doesn't exist. [^3] You get
"productivity" obsessed people trying to "squeeze more work out of less hours".

Indeed, for the modern person, we are often trained to think of time *not as
humans* but rather *as machines*. A boss does calculations&mdash;"how many
widgets per an hour can I produce and at what cost?" This boss may then add or
remove coffee machines, raise or lower rages, and exercise other buttons,
switches, and levers to extract as much *hourly output* as possible from his
(or her) hybrid workforce of humans and machines.

Our bodies groan under the unnatural structure of this quantified toil. Looking
at what people *ackshually* do in offices, you will be unsurprised to find a
lot of "slacking off". This isn't just because people are "lazy"&mdash;it is
also because we are trying to "install" largely "incompatible software" on
ourselves.

This isn't to say that *nobody* actually works as they do in business school
theory. Rather we can look at how certain "rhythms" of switching between
various activities (as well as social arrangements) are more or less *natural*
to us.


[^1]: I've heard that is is bad luck in Chinese (folk) culture to give a clock
  as a gift. This is because it is like "counting down till death".
[^2]: See Wikip on [Romanticism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romanticism).
[^3]: Genesis describes the creation of the world in six days, with rest on the
  seventh. Have any cultures ever successfully gone against this pattern?
