title: Corona Virus Diary, Part 95
date: 2021-01-20
category: News

You can often identify groups of people by the words and phrases they
use. For instance, members of the same corporation may be familiar
with some same corporate jargon and likewise those that make up the
"fandom" of some book series/movie/etc may often share
allusions/references to that thing when conversing with one another.

The language of famous people is no different&mdash;through the
repetition of particular phrases, symbolism, and associations (who has
met with and interviewed whom) you can begin to construct **graphs**
(in the sense of "graph theory") showing the associations of people
and what sorts of ideologies they espouse.

I've been kind of slow on realizing the above points, because as a
*nerd* it is easy to get lost in useless details. Hyper-specialization
can lead a person to be vulnerable/dependent on *very* specific
systems/configurations. For example, if you had a law practice that
specialized in exploiting on aspect of the law, a sudden change in the
law would really disturb business&mdash;you would have to find some
other niche and hope that your customers stay with you even though the
initial service you provided isn't available anymore.

I hear programers saying similar sorts of things. Programers today
aren't using the same technologies (at least ono the *surface*) that
were used ten or twenty years ago; there are different abstractions,
workflows, and so on that people must interface with everyday. A
developer of a couple of decades back may be impressed by the degree
of automation in many of today's tools&mdash;but this same developer
might also be appalled at the state of "software bloat" and waste of
computing power and human hours to get things set up and running.

Of course learning your tools well is always valuable&mdash;no matter
what you're doing, it is a good idea to do a good job at it. However,
it is also important to not be na√Øve and to recognize that there are
people that lie, scheme, plot, etc with no regard to you and your
well-being.

It is for this reason that it is imperative to *not become isolated*
but to know that just as there are people "above" us that organize
trouble, we too have the freedom to organize peacefully in such a way
that we can support one another against those who desire harm for
others or ill-gotten gain.

