title: Written Communication, 2021
date: 2021-03-16
category: Interwebs

What follows is an analysis on various forms of *written* communication and how
to make these tools useful to you. Choose the right (write? *har har*) tool for
the right job!

What is available
-----------------

Most modern people make frequent use of at least a few different tools to do
written communication. Here they are:

- e-mail
- messaging apps (Messenger, LINE, WeChat etc)^[1]
- websites (static)&mdash;sites you go on to "look up information"; contrast
  this with a *dynamic* website like Facebook which has constantly
  changing/updating content
- books and other print resources

Each of these tools have properties that make them well-suited for certain
jobs, but terrible fits for others. Through my experience being an Internet
nerd, I will share how to use and *not* use these tools.

### E-mail

The basic form of these things is pretty fixed for now. While Gmail and other
"modern" e-mail applications might introduce new (anti-)features like various
notification this-and-that, the basic functions of e-mail have now been
established for decades. The name **e-mail** accurately expresses what it
is&mdash;electronic (or *digital*) mail.

E-mail is good for longer-form, carefully written messsages. For instance, many
people will still go to e-mail first for the purposes of...

- Reaching the author of a book/paper with a question
- Contacting a company to inquire about job openings/offerings
- Checking up on a friend/relative who doesn't use social media like Facebook,
  Instagram, etc
- Detailing/documenting some situation or issue and sending a report to
  relevant parties

Like physical mail, dealing with e-mail often involves the issue of dealing
with some accumulating pile of *unread* or *unsorted* messages. Before Gmail
became widespread, people also had to *delete* messages to manage a finite
amount of storage space. Gmail made the idea of "archiving" mainstream&mdash;
never deleting anything so Google, federal agents, and maybe you, can easily
search past messages for relevant information you won't "throw away" on
accident.

This *archiving* ability of e-mail makes it useful as a *log of
communications*. So suppose you need to have some work done on your home.
E-mail communications provide a "paper trail" to make sure everything gets
taken care of, workers are fairly compensated, and so on and so forth.  Trying
to track these things through a messier chat log would be difficult.  Having
clearly written but thorough e-mail messages written with the intention of
being easily searchable and providing documentation beats an app like FB
Messenger.

E-mail is thus *good for doing work* that involves clear, intentional
communication. It discourages idle talk because you know that your chatter will
be more junk to sort through later. *You will annoy yourself later*

E-mail is not so good for "pinging" people, multi-party (more than two people)
conversations or sending messages that require more than text and/or a couple
of images. Many people (myself included) don't constantly watch their e-mail
inboxes while working. You probably have better things to do than to stare at
your mailbox waiting for the postman&mdash;unless you're a dog. So to reach
someone "instantly", a phone call, a message on a chatting app, etc may be a
more sure-fire way to establish contact. Or, of course, you can schedule a time
to call via e-mail.

Threads with a lot of people are difficult and confusing to read&mdash;not much
more to say on this one.

Finally, the form of e-mails is limited by the medium. If you have to present
information in a very specific way (e.g. you have a gallery of photos to
share), then linking to a website *in an e-mail* is preferable to a chain of 25
e-mails each with a giant `.jpeg` attached to it.

### Messaging Apps

Messaging apps are useful for havin conversations in the "digital world". While
I think a lot can be said about how "face-to-face" or "in-person" conversations
are superior to online conversations, I think we can appreciate how in the
modern world most of us often have to interface with the **digital veil** which
rests above "base reality".

Like different physical places, different chatting platforms have different
properties. In 2021, **Discord** is the de-facto "chat room" app for NEETs
awaiting government stimulus checks. [^2] It is a useful place to connect with
interest-centered communities&mdash;e.g. computer programmers, digital artists,
and organic farmers.

Facebook messenger is a go-to place for "real life" contacts. Many people
around my age (millennial generation) understand that Faceboook "glows", but
this is acceptable for nearly all "normal/everyday" conversations. [^3]
Deciding where to meet a group of friends under surveillance cameras is already
being watched and recorded, so you might as well use the nice IT infrastructure
big tech provides to facilitate such a meeting.

Most people you see walking around, sitting on benches, etc with mobile devices
probably are using some chat app. [^4] A fact of 2021 is that lots of people do
much of their chatting online. So getting skilled/comfy in these platforms can
be helpful for getting stuff done.

### Websites (Static)

I'm a big fan of *static* websites&mdash;that is, websites that aren't
"social", fueled by ever-changing data contributed by users. You can think of a
static website like a print resource you can access via a phone, computer, etc.

Think about useful information you might want to look up:

- Recipes to cook
- Manuals for machines, programming languages
- Charts, reference books, etc

Rather than having a ginormous (paper) library, having easily searchable
digital documents can be nice.

At their best, these resources are freely available, don't annoy you with
advertisements, and display nicely on a wide variety of devices (like desktop,
tablet, mobile).

### Print Resources

Print resources can't be changed by some central server and thus are a valuable
decentralized data store. *You* are in charge of the security of these things.
You won't be "gaslit" by Big Brother so easily with these materials.

The cost of this is convenience; oftentimes using paper resources may be a
slower, more complex process than using digital technology.

Maybe in the long run, however, this is actually good. For instance, I learned
how to read/write lots of Chinese characters via the "old-fashioned" pen and
paper methods. I am not sure I could have learned what I have with only digital
resources.

Summary
-------

In 2021, digital written communications are everywhere. Understanding various
properties of each common form of digital communication can be helpful for
avoiding useless "innovations" and making the most of existing platforms.

If e-mail does something better, you gain no advantage having everyone in your
project switch to some new fancy chat service. Likewise, trying to smash
something that is better done via chatting to e-mail will make your inbox bleed
and lead to confusion. Some things need no "discussion"&mdash;static webpages
*without* comments and stuff can be best for lots of content.

Thinking first of the *work that needs to be done* and then choosing the
appropriate tool is better than trying to use some one tool for 8 hours a day
(just because it is in some job description made by some HR person).

[^1]: Different nations seem to have their favorite "preferred" app. Likewise,
  there will be online communities centered around particular apps&mdash;lots
  of privacy concerned people like **Signal**. Neckbeards (*ackshual* or in
  character) enjoy **Discord**, Crypto enthusiasts like Telegram...
[^2]: Not Employed, in Education, or Training
[^3]: "Glows" refers to federal agents, government surveillance, etc.;
  Facebook/Messenger clearly isn't a "free" and "privacy-centric" platform.
[^4]: I don't have a source. Go back to reddit, nerd!
