title: Memory and Muscle
date: 2020-12-08
category: Lifestyle

Two areas in which many modern people are lacking development are
**memory** and **muscle**. The urban, modern person is told to
constantly make use of new *technology* which substitutes for these
both. Why *remember* anything when Google can do it for you? What use
is muscle mass in the twenty first century when cars, forklifts, and
other machines are used for many tasks that in the past required
bodily strength and endurance?

There is no substitute for developing memory and muscle&mdash;that is
*learning*. While we may, over the courses of our lives, make use of
many tools which require some specialized learning, training of both
memory and muscle is essential to be an effective human being, all
around. Through cultivating these, we build discipline and endurance
which can serve us in any times&mdash;difficult or "easy". [^1]

The fragmented mind
-------------------

Without training memory, our minds are fragmented. By "training
memory" here, I mean being able to *recall and reproduce* useful
bodies of knowledge. By a *fragmented mind* I mean having uncontrolled
attention and will with nothing firm to grasp&mdash;a vague idea of
what so-and-so said, or why such-and-such is famous, or even how
such-and-such is put together. A day may be driven by thinking *what
is for lunch* for the first four hours of the day, punctuated by
recollections of images and sounds from some TV show, followed by
esoteric technical details of some dry read. Then a social interaction
may mean checking a phone for some news&mdash;programmed anxiety. Rest
might be found in distraction&mdash;whether through music, alcohol,
food, chasing "experiences" or some other mechanism.

### The hyper-literate scatter brain

Many modern people have knowledge of a variety of
*processes*&mdash;e.g. *where* to look up some information. But this
is different from mastering a systematic body of knowledge. Indeed you
might know the specifics of how to use a few different dictionaries,
but this isn't the same as developing mastery of some language and
being able to *recall* words learned and sentence structures for
effective communication.

It is easy for many of us to waste hours and hours "surfing the web",
consooming *content*&mdash;whether through videos or reading articles
or even books.

The main idea bad thing here is that rather than *building up*
knowledge or *training*, we are passively allowing the environment to
fragment us our further. Being able to recognize thousands and
thousands of symbols/songs/etc substitutes for the mastery of bodies
of knowledge and we instead entrap ourselves into being stupid N-gram
models. [^2]

You are not too smart for muscle
--------------------------------

In English, we have expressions like "brains over brawn" or even "work
smarter, not harder" which extol the strength of the "genius" or
"braniac" who can outsmart the dumb brute. Indeed, the Anglo world
(and the Western world more broadly) celebrates its big-braned heroes:
Albert Einstein, Thomas Edison, Lovelace, Turing... (depends on what
domain you're in, but we've all heard of at least some of these people
through schools, libraries, etc).

Much of this talk is to support the **mythos** of the "technological
savior". Life was terrible before XYZ technologies, they say. [^3]
And so many people and billions of dollars are put forth towards a
*cure for cancer*, with relatively few people investigating the
discipline of *fasting*, including its spiritual purposes.

Likewise, many "inventions" or "innovations" of the present era do not
really improve anything&mdash;they are just many people happen to use
whereas more generic, older, time-tested ways of doing things suffice

- A piece of paper with a list of exercises can replace a "fitness
  app"
- Walking can allow you to spend time memorizing/recalling
  information, learn about your environment, *and* give you exercise
  while cutting transportation costs
- Skilled use with a single cooking knife means you do not need a
  bunch of highly-specific tools
  
Instead of following the above suggestions, the modern person often
lives in fear and hopes upon technology for deliverance. They plug in
*product* instead of training *skill*. Training skill often means
repetition, developing muscle, refining movements, and so forth.

Conclusion
----------

I once semi-jokingly said of myself, "I lose 60% of my abilities when
I"m away from a computer". What a nerd!

Critical reflection on what we *know how to do* and what bodies of
knowledge we possess may reveal... ...well, we have a lot of work to
do.

I write this post to motivate myself to do better being a competent
human being, and I hope it is useful for some others that may come
across this too. We cannot depend on the US dollar, today's
fashionable technologies, and the latest pop psychology to give us
peace. A disciplined mind and body will do better to prepare us for
the challenges of the world than a comfy job we might happen to have
at one time and place.

[^1]: Modern times are "easy" in many respects, but appears the bait
    in a trap!
[^2]: Much computer analysis of language has to do with analyzing
    sequences of *N* words or tokens; for instance, **bigrams** are
    sequences of two words, **trigrams** are sequences of three words,
    and so forth. Such approaches just like at *form* and then make
    mappings between those forms and other things such as images,
    combinations of words in other languages, and so forth.
[^3]: Less commonly discussed is how our technological "improvements"
    beget the very problems we're trying to solve. Speculative takes,
    such as "we must continue to develop technology because in
    millions of years the sun will engulf the earth" OR "we never know
    when an asteroid will hit the earth so we must develop spaceships
    to colonize other worlds" can be used to bonk non-tech enthusiasts
    over the head as "not caring about humanity".
