title: Search Engine Stupidity, Part 1
date: 11-20-2020
category: Interwebs

Search engines use **terms** ("search terms") to give you relevant
information. Sometimes, this is pretty straightforward. For example,
`weather CITY` will conveniently give you a weekly weather forecast
for the place you searched in all major search engines.

Using Search Engines to find this sort of straightforward, homogenous
data is fast and easy. Likewise, you can search things like,

- Measurement conversions
- Prices of stocks, cryptocurrencies, etc
- Geographic information, e.g. locations of cities in places
- Codified knowledge, like the scientific names of plants and animals
- Rules and regulations

Really, you don't need a search engine to do most of these things. But
services like Google make doing these things easier than having
tables/charts for how to make conversions, reading over print
publications, etc.

What search engines *dont* tell you
-----------------------------------

Search engines can spit you back a bunch of symbols in response to a
search query, but it is up to *you* as an individual to interpret that
information.

Above, I gave some pretty dry, uninteresting search query examples.
Let's look at some other things people might search.

### Spanish language learning

On the one hand, there is a pretty standardized thing we call
*Spanish*. There are correct and incorrect ways to conjugate verbs,
use articles with nouns, and so on and so forth. This sort of
information, you can look up. It will likely involve learning some of
the conventions of a popular dictionary (e.g. how do they indicate
what sorts of conjugations a verb uses), but once you learn how to do
this, you can quickly use searching technques to boost your language
learning speed.

You may find that doing a Google search for something like "Spansih
language learning", rather than getting the information like I
described above, you are given links to many *products and services*.
Now, I am not saying that there is anything *wrong* with these
products, services, but what I am saying is that what Google is giving
to you is not just "raw information" like in the first set of cases I
introduced in this article (weather etc), but rather you are being
given suggestions on a particular sort of behavior you can follow.

Learning Spanish involves learning some grammatical rules, a bunch of
vocabulary, and getting practice applying this knowledge listening,
speaking, reading, and writing. Search engines may sort many doors to
places where you can do these things, but the search Engine doesn't
necessarily *teach you how to learn a foreign language* or give you
the means by which to sort through these options.

### Historical facts

Google can probably do a very good job giving you dates of birth and
death of various people, when named battles/wars occured, and so and
on forth. Basically, it can be a good index for historical knowledge
that is establishment accepted and codified.

Google might try to tell particular stories and say who is important
and why through how it ranks its results. Should you just buy the
official narrative?

You've probably heard sayings like "there's two sides to every story".
Likewise, when using Google to find out about history, we should be
critical of what sort of views are favored by Google (they aren't
"neutral").

Note that people will often talk about "algorithms" and what they do.
You cannot seperate algorithms from the people that program them and
the data they feed it. There are some pretty funny terms in machine
learning and AI research like **supervised** vs **unsupervised**
learning and **discrimination tasks**. [^1] 

### Tech Solutions

Engineering takes careful thought and planning. Searching Google will
give you "hot" results&mdash;new things that someone is hyping up.
Whether or not these solutions will actually meet your present needs
with the least amount of trouble is a different question.

For instance, consider how nowadays, there is a big push for cloud
computing everything and the "Internet of Things". Searching for tech
solutions, I am guessing you'll get a lot of these things. You
probably don't *need* these things and they will likely be very
expensive *and* compromise your privacy, security, etc. That's just
the nature of letting somebody else manage your data!

[^1]: Imagine the most racist, micromanaged elementary school you
    can&mdash;that's what they do with these search algorithms.
