title: Shadowrun Games Review
date: 02-28-2020
category: Fun

Here is my game review for [Shadowrun: Hong
Kong](https://store.steampowered.com/app/346940/Shadowrun_Hong_Kong__Extended_Edition/)
(2015) and [Shadowrun
Returns](https://store.steampowered.com/app/234650/Shadowrun_Returns/)
(2013).

This review *contains no spoilers*. I'm mainly discussing major
gameplay things you'll be able see within ten minutes of playing.


Background
----------

Would you trust someone who doesn't drink coffee to give you reviews
of the local caf√©s? Probably not. Let me tell you a bit about myself
and my gaming history.

### I am a Casual

I don't play games competitively whatsoever. I briefly tried to climb
in LoL, but I sucked and remained in Bronze where I originally placed,
lol. I am a *casual*. So here I am, reviewing a game series I played
through on *normal* mode. Me, a **normie**.

### I take a long time to play through games

Typically, when I go through some game, I play like 3-7 times per a
week in around 1-2 hour sessions. That being said, it takes a while
for me to finish playing through any game.


Races, Classes, Etiquettes
--------------------------

One interesting aspect of the Shadowrun games is the way characters
are built. Building interesting characters is one the main reasons
people would play an
[RPG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-playing_game) to begin with.

### Races

There are "[vanilla](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vanilla_software)"
humans and then there are "metahumans": trolls, orcs, dwarves, elves.
Using different (fictional) races like this allows the game creators
to introduce low-key "__race realism__" into this game. Some races are
more/less charismatic than others, other races are physically
stronger/weaker. These discussions needn't be *hateful* of course;
rather the player must ask themselves, how do I navigate this
diversity that I never asked for?

So, as with other fictional universes, you can safely explore the
notion of "race" in Shadowrun.

### Classes

As an undergraduate, I typically received the same sort of reaction
when I said I was majoring in Philosophy (and Chinese, but *not*
"Chinese Philosophy" mind you). Namely, people asked "wtf are you
gonna do with that?" A valid question, ha!

Shadowrun is similar&mdash;except you choose a general *class* for
your character, and typically build up attributes/abilities (by
spending *karma* points) that match your character's affinities. As in
real life, your resources are limited, so if you try to spread your
development too thin (like yours truly), you may quickly end up the
"jack of all trades, but the master of none". However, as you hyper
focus, there are also **diminishing marginal returns**, with each
increasing of an existing ability/attribute you have being more
expensive.

Thus to build a strong character (in terms of game mechanics), you
have to strike a balance between spcializing (and unlocking very
powerful abilities) and building yourself a broad palette of options.

### Etiquettes

In Shadowrun, you choose an "etiquette", like Corporate, Security,
Gang... Basically this is social know-how for some type of community.

I found this pretty relevant to real life; you may, for example, be a
straight-A student, but a total idiot on the streets. Likewise, you
may be excellent at writing cover letters for LinkedIn, but you may
suck at creating cheery conversation buzz with friends.

### Other things

When building a character, you can optionally get cyber-body upgrades
like plastic coating for your skin and such. Each upgrade consumes
"essence" of your body; you cannot completely replace yourself with
robo-parts! For you nerds that like "deep thoughts", check out some
thought experiments in "**Philosophy of Mind**". You can sip wine with
your pinky up while doing so.

The cyberpunk aesthetic
-----------------------

The main reason I can see for playing Shadowrun is to enjoy immersive
role playing. For tactical strategy greatness, fast-paced action,
studying Japanese, or whatever you might wanna do, there are probably
better options. But for running around sprawling urban concrete
jungles causing mischief, these games are pretty fun. Would recommend
and play again!
