title: Smartphones suck.
date: 2020-05-04
category: Lifestyle

Now in the second deade of the twentieth century, rather than getting
flying cars, the elimination of poverty, and anonymous global
crypto-currencies, we got **smartphones** [^1].

Smartphones suck. They suck your time and attention. They suck your
bank account(s) dry, especially if you have set up "convenient"
payment systems and find yourself near vending machines stocked with
tasty energy drinks.

As a society, I think it is in our best interest to talk about
smartphones like how we talk about drugs and alcohol. They can be
fun/useful for some things, but definitely not for everyone and
something to be approached with caution. Many wisely choose to abstain
completely.

## "Personal Surveillance Devices"

Smartphones are personalized advertisement aggregating surveillance
devices. You pay money to get tracked. "Security" isn't about *you*,
it's about your digital persona, a marketable product that you do not
own.

With limited privileges you *could* grow a big
business, become famous, etc.; likewise, by owning a typewriter you
*could* write a best-selling novel. Most people don't do this though;
most people lose [bigly](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/bigly) with
most minutes spent on smartphones.

When you use a smartphone, you are given limited access to a little
node on a big [graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_theory). The
companies that own these graphs are firstly Google and Apple, who
control Android and iOS an their stores, respectively [^2].  The
tracking doesn't stop there, however. All big "social" apps, including
multiplayer games and other "fun" diversions, have similar tracking
features. Your phone (and by extension Apple and Google) also knows
how much time you spend on each app.

For many people, this is OK because "I don't mind being tracked
because I'm not doing anything wrong". That might be a fine view to
have *now*, but what will you do if the political fashionistas decide
that some view you have is a Nazi view? Do not support "the purge"
because you expect to get out okay!

## Physical and Social Issues

Some people use their smartphones kinda like personal trainers. Their
phones pump media into their brains while ordering them to do pushups
and stuff (see the "[7 Minute Workout](https://7-min.com/)", for a
representative example) [^3]. Most people, however, don't use their
smartphones in this way. Their smartphones, rather than functioning as
motivational coaches, work as myopia inducing, posture destroying,
distraction vectors that literally get thousands (more?) of people
killed every year. You might develop [Repetitive Strain
Injury](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Repetitive_strain_injury) from
swiping your thumbs over a glass plate all day.

Smart phones force you into **corporate mediated communication**
because all of the chatting and stuff you do through a smartphone
passes through the filters of *someone else's servers*. Sneaky
advertisements influence your thoughts. You may *think* you are
ignoring them, the the dark arts of advertisement penetrate deep and
*NONE ARE IMMUNE*.

Socially, this means that people are *increasingly optimized as
particular types of consumers*. Smartphones put you on an
advertisement to purchase pipeline. Even if you don't choose to buy,
your data will be sold.

## Alternatives

I think that most people should opt out smartphone use to the best of
their ability. When non-smartphone options are available, these
options should be favored.

For instance, many people use their phones to check the time. Seems
benign enough, right?

What often ends up happening, however, is that the NOTIFICATION SCREEN
pushes all sorts of info into your attention. This is one way in which
the smartphone is a vector of corporate mind viruses; it attacks you
when you are just waiting for a bus or twiddling your thumbs
distracted from homework or something.

Sometimes you can tweak the settings on your phone to try to suppress
things like the aforementioned notifications. But even still, you are
having faith that our tech overlords (Apple, Google) are doing what
the smartphone UI wants you to believe you are doing. Behind the
scenes, our tech overlords may instead be creating a profile of you as
a "privacy/security concerned user" and trying to optimize the
marketing of some new product to sell to you&mdash;"APPLE VPN" or
something!

"Privacy" or "productivity" features shouldn't be trusted. The
operating systems themselves are spyware which you have no control
over. Using a smartphone is entering *The Matrix*, as is using things
like Google Chrome (and probably MacOS, Windows). Sometimes we have to
enter *The Matrix* to get things done, but it is not the world we are
native to.

For tasks where no smart phone is required, not using a smart phone is
preferable:

- **Telling time**: look at a clock/watch; analyze shadows cast on the ground
- **Alarm clocks, timers, etc.**: alarm clocks, timers, etc.
- **Workout**: stopwatch, friends/coaches/etc.; book/guides/lists on routines
- **Calculator**: learn some mental arithmetic; this is literally
  elementary school level math
- **Dictionary**: paper is fine; dedicated electronic dictionary; PC
  application
- **Maps**: A sense of direction, paper maps
- **Finding foods**: just walk into a restaurant and try it
- **Weather**: Use this as an opportunity to talk with someone (like
  the British do)

The goal is to give your smartphone *as little viewing time as
possible*. When it is time to smartphone, then dive in and smartphone
all the way. But do not kinda smartphone throughout the whole
day. That is a road to misery.

## A good investment?

As much as I dislike smartphones, I must admit one place in which they
are extremely efficient economically. This is as a "content creation"
tool for those involved in social media business.  Many people buy
lots of stuff they do not really use, but typically, when people
purchase smart phones they use them *a whole lot*. For those that
specialize in bending other people's minds through smartphones, the
smartphone is of course an indispensible tool to use and understand.

There are also people that specialize in selling cigarettes and
convincing people to join malicious organizations.

## Not your device

Smartphones *can* be tools, but they are tools that are very often far
outside our control. Think [John Deere
tractors](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/xykkkd/why-american-farmers-are-hacking-their-tractors-with-ukrainian-firmware)
(more generally the "**right to repair**"), but worse because
smartphones are so widespread and are less domain specific.

Smartphones are about *constraining* users to a certain (small) sets
of actions. Automation is not practically possible for smartphone use
because it is the phone that is supposed to be smart, *not you*. Your
job is to populate other people/companies' servers with useful for
data for *their ends*.

When you opt to use your smartphone less and consciously do actions
you *plan* when you *do* decide to use your smartphone, you take control
of your attention and by extension... your LIFE. Shove your smartphone
into a [Faraday bag](https://www.amazon.com/faraday-bag/s?k=faraday+bag) when you are not using it and laugh as the battery
drains. Today is YOUR DAY to seize.


Additional Notes
----------------

### Further Reading

- Many of the ideas presented here are in agreement with ideas put forth by RMS, creator of the Free Software Foundation.

### Footnotes

[^1]: We also got Windows updates that can restart your computer into a broken state while you are sleeping as well as sequels to movies which nobody I know asked for.

[^2]: Facebook's [Graph API](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/graph-api/) is a model exemplifying this graph metaphor

[^3]: Just memorize the damn routine and use a stop watch or something; you don't have to summon the [panopticon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon) while you are doing a "prison workout"
